Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
Adopted and proclaimed by General Assembly resolution 217 A (III) of December 10 
1948. 
PREAMBLE 
Whereas recognizing the inherent dignity of all 
members of the human family, and their equal and inalienable rights are 
the basis of freedom, justice and world peace; and  
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights 
have led to barbaric acts that outrage the conscience of mankind, and 
that the creation of a world in which people will have freedom of speech and 
beliefs and will be free from fear and want, proclaimed as 
high aspiration of people; and 
Whereas it is necessary that human rights be protected 
authority of law to ensure that a person is not forced 
resort, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and 
oppression; and  
Considering that it is necessary to promote the development 
friendly relations between peoples; and  
Whereas the peoples of the United Nations have confirmed in 
Charter its belief in fundamental human rights, dignity and worth 
human personality and the equality of men and women and decided 
promote social progress and improve living conditions under 
greater freedom; and 
Whereas Member States have committed themselves to assist, in 
cooperation with the United Nations, universal 
respect and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms; And
Whereas there is a general understanding of the nature of these rights and 
freedoms is of utmost importance for the full implementation of this 
obligations, 
 

 
General Assembly,  
proclaims this Universal Declaration of Human Rights as 
a task to which all peoples and 
state so that every person and every organ of society, 
Keeping this Declaration in mind at all times, strive by 
education and training to promote respect for these rights and freedoms and 
ensuring, through national and international progressive 
activities, universal and effective recognition and implementation 
both among the peoples of the member states of the Organization and among the peoples 
territories under their jurisdiction.  
Article 1  
All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. 
They are endowed with reason and conscience and must act in relation to each other. 
friend in the spirit of brotherhood.  
Article 2 
Every person should have all rights and all freedoms, 
proclaimed by this Declaration, without any 
differences such as race, color, sex, language, religion, 
political or other beliefs, national or social 
origin, property, class or other status.  
Moreover, no distinction should be made on the basis 
political, legal or international status of a country or 
territory to which a person belongs, regardless of whether he is
whether the territory is independent, trust, non-self-governing or 
otherwise limited in its sovereignty. 
Article 3 
 

 
Every person has the right to life, liberty and privacy 
inviolability.  
Article 4 
No one should be held in slavery or servitude; 
Slavery and the slave trade are prohibited in all their forms.  
Article 5 
No one should be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or 
degrading treatment and punishment. 
Article 6 
Every person, wherever he is, has the right to recognition 
legal personality. 
Article 7 
All people are equal before the law and have the right, without any distinction, to 
equal protection of the law. All persons have the right to equal protection from any 
any discrimination in violation of this Declaration, and from 
any incitement to such discrimination.  
Article 8 
Every person has the right to effective restoration of rights 
competent national courts in cases of violation of its fundamental 
rights granted to him by the constitution or law.  
Article 9 
 

 
No one may be subjected to arbitrary arrest, detention or 
exile.  
Article 10 
Each person, to determine his rights and duties and to 
establishing the validity of the criminal charges brought against him, 
has the right, on the basis of full equality, to have his case 
reviewed publicly and in compliance with all requirements of fairness 
an independent and impartial court.  
Article 11
1. Every person accused of committing a crime has 
the right to be presumed innocent until proven guilty 
will be established legally through a public hearing 
proceedings in which he is provided with all opportunities 
for protection. 
2. No one can be convicted of a crime on the basis 
commission of any act or for inaction, which in 
the time of their commission did not constitute crimes according to national 
laws or international law. Cannot also be imposed 
punishment more severe than that which could have been applied in 
the time when the crime was committed. 
Article 12 
No one may be subjected to arbitrary interference with his personal and 
family life, arbitrary attacks on the integrity of 
his home, the secrecy of his correspondence or on his honor and reputation. 
Every person has the right to the protection of the law against such interference 
or such attacks.  
 

 
Article 13 
1. Every person has the right to move freely and choose 
own place of residence within each state. 
2. Every person has the right to leave any country, including his own 
own, and return to their country. 
Article 14 
1. Every person has the right to seek asylum from persecution in 
other countries and take advantage of this refuge. 
2. This right cannot be used in case of persecution, in 
reality based on the commission of non-political
crime or act contrary to the goals and principles 
United Nations. 
Article 15 
1. Every person has the right to citizenship. 
2. No one may be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality or 
the right to change your citizenship. 
Article 16 
1. Men and women who have reached the age of majority have the right without 
any restrictions based on race, nationality or religion 
marry and start a family. They enjoy 
equal rights with regard to marriage, during 
conditions during marriage and during its dissolution. 
2. Marriage can only be concluded with free and full consent 
both parties to the marriage. 
3. The family is the natural and basic unit of society and has 
the right to protection from society and the state. 
 

 
Article 17 
1. Every person has the right to own property as an individual, 
and together with others. 
2. No one should be arbitrarily deprived of their property. 
Article 18  
Every person has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this is 
right includes freedom to change one's religion or belief and freedom 
to profess one's religion or beliefs, either individually or in community with 
others, public or private, in teaching, worship and 
performing religious and ritual ceremonies.  
Article 19 
Every person has the right to freedom of opinion and to free 
expressing them; this right includes freedom without interference 
adhere to one's convictions and the freedom to seek, receive and
disseminate information and ideas by any means and regardless of 
state borders. 
Article 20 
1. Every person has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and 
associations. 
2. No one shall be forced to join any association. 
Article 21  
1. Every person has the right to take part in the management of his 
country directly or through freely elected 
representatives. 
 

 
2. Every person has the right of equal access to public 
service in your country. 
3. The will of the people must be the basis of the government's authority; this will 
must find expression in periodic and 
fraudulent elections that should be held under 
universal and equal suffrage by secret ballot 
or through other equivalent forms that provide 
freedom of voting. 
Article 22 
Every person, as a member of society, has the right to social 
provision and implementation necessary to maintain it 
dignity and for the free development of his personality rights in the economic, 
social and cultural fields through national efforts 
and international cooperation and in accordance with the structure and 
resources of each state.  
Article 23 
1. Every person has the right to work, to free choice of work, 
to just and favorable conditions of work and to protection from 
unemployment. 
2. Every person, without any discrimination, has the right to 
equal pay for equal work.
3. Every worker has the right to fair and 
satisfactory remuneration providing decent 
a person's existence for himself and his family, and 
supplemented, if necessary, by other means of social 
provision. 
4. Every person has the right to create trade unions and 
join trade unions to protect their interests. 
 

 
Article 24 
Every person has the right to rest and leisure, including the right to reasonable 
limitation of working hours and periodic paid leave.  
Article 25 
1. Every person has the right to an adequate standard of living, including 
food, clothing, housing, medical care and necessary social 
services necessary to maintain health and 
well-being of himself and his family, and the right to security for 
case of unemployment, illness, disability, widowhood, 
old age or other case of loss of livelihood due to 
circumstances depending on him. 
2. Maternity and infancy give the right to special care and 
help. All children born in or out of wedlock must 
enjoy the same social protection. 
Article 26 
1. Every person has the right to education. Education should 
be free at least as far as initial and 
general education. Primary education should be 
mandatory. Technical and Vocational Education 
should be accessible to all, and higher education should be
equally accessible to all based on each individual's abilities. 
2. Education should be aimed at full development 
human personality and to increasing respect for human rights 
and fundamental freedoms. Education should promote 
mutual understanding, tolerance and friendship between all peoples, 
racial and religious groups, and should promote 
 

 
activities of the United Nations in maintaining 
peace. 
3. Parents have the right of priority in choosing the type of education for 
their young children. 
Article 27  
1. Every person has the right to freely participate in cultural 
life of society, enjoy art, participate in scientific 
progress and enjoy its benefits. 
2. Every person has the right to protection of his moral and 
material interests resulting from scientific, 
literary or artistic works of which he is the author 
is. 
Article 28 
Every person has the right to social and international order, 
in which the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration may 
be fully implemented.  
Article 29 
1. Every person has responsibilities to society in which 
Only the free and complete development of his personality is possible. 
2. When exercising their rights and freedoms, each person must 
be subject only to such restrictions as are established 
law solely for the purpose of ensuring due recognition and 
respect for the rights and freedoms of others and satisfaction of fair 
requirements of morality, public order and general
well-being in a democratic society. 
 

 
3. The exercise of these rights and freedoms must in no case be 
contradict the purposes and principles of the United Nations 
Nations. 
Article 30  
Nothing in this Declaration shall be construed as 
providing to any state, group of persons or individuals 
the right to engage in any activity or perform actions, 
aimed at destroying the rights and freedoms set forth in this 
Declarations.