Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
Preamble 
Considering that the recognition of the inherent dignity of all members of the human family and their rights 
equal and inalienable constitutes the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world;  
Considering that ignorance and disregard for human rights have led to acts of barbarity that outrage 
the conscience of Humanity and that the advent of a world in which human beings are free to speak and believe, 
freed from terror and misery, he was proclaimed as the highest inspiration of Man;  
Considering that the protection of human rights through a regime of law is essential, so that man 
do not be compelled, in supreme resort, to revolt against tyranny and oppression;  
Whereas it is essential to encourage the development of friendly relations between nations;  
Considering that, in the Charter, the people of the United Nations proclaim, once again, their faith in the fundamental rights of the 
Man, in the dignity and value of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women and if 
declared their resolve to promote social progress and establish better living conditions within freedom 
wider;  
Considering that member states have committed to promoting, in cooperation with the Organization of 
United Nations, universal and effective respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;
Considering that a common conception of these rights and freedoms is of the utmost importance to fully 
satisfaction of such commitment:  
The General Assembly proclaims this Universal Declaration  
of Human Rights  
as a common ideal to be achieved by all peoples and all nations, so that all individuals and all organs of the 
society, having it constantly in mind, strive, through teaching and education, to develop respect 
of these rights and freedoms and for promoting, through progressive national and international measures, their 
universal and effective recognition and application both among the populations of the member states themselves and 
between those of the territories placed under its jurisdiction.  
Article 1  
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. Endowed with reason and conscience, they must 
act towards each other in a spirit of fraternity.  
Article 2  

All human beings may invoke the rights and freedoms proclaimed in this Declaration, without distinction 
any, namely race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national origin 
or social, fortune, birth or any other situation. 
Furthermore, no distinction will be made based on the political, legal or international status of the country or 
territory of the person's birth, whether that country or independent territory, under guardianship, autonomous or subject to some
limitation of sovereignty.  
Article 3 
Every individual has the right to life, liberty and personal security.  
Article 4  
No one will be held in slavery or servitude; slavery and the treatment of slaves, in all forms, are 
prohibited.  
Article 5  
No one shall be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.  
Article 6 
All individuals have the right to recognition, everywhere, of their legal personality.  
Article 7  
All are equal before the law and, without distinction, are entitled to equal protection of the law. Everyone has the right to equal protection 
against any discrimination that violates this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination.  
Article 8 
Everyone has the right to effective recourse to competent national jurisdictions against acts that violate the 
fundamental rights recognized by the Constitution or law.  
Article 9 
No one may be arbitrarily arrested, detained or exiled.  
Article 10  

Everyone has the right, in full equality, to have their case judged fairly and publicly by a court 
independent and impartial decision on your rights and obligations or the reasons for any accusation in a matter 
penalty charged against her.  
Article 11 
1. 
Every person accused of a criminal act is presumed innocent until proven guilty.
legally proven in the course of a public process in which all the necessary defense guarantees are provided 
are ensured.  
2. 
No one will be condemned for actions or omissions that, at the time of their commission, did not constitute an act 
criminal under domestic or international law. Likewise, no more severe penalty will be inflicted than 
that which was applicable at the time the criminal act was committed.  
Article 12  
No one will suffer arbitrary interference in their private life, their family, their home or their 
correspondence, nor attacks on his honor and reputation. Against such interference or attacks everyone has the right to 
protection of the law.  
Article 13  
1. 
Everyone has the right to freely move and choose their residence within a State.  
2. 
Everyone has the right to leave the country in which they are located, including their own, and the right to return 
to your country.  
Article 14  
1. 
Everyone subject to persecution has the right to seek and benefit from asylum in other countries.  
2. 
This right cannot, however, be invoked in the case of actually existing proceedings for a crime under the law. 
or for activities contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.  
Article 15  
1. 
Every individual has the right to have a nationality.  
2. 
No one may be arbitrarily deprived of their nationality or the right to change nationality.  
Article 16  
1.
From the age of marriage, men and women have the right to marry and found a family, without any restrictions. 
of race, nationality or religion. During the marriage and at the time of its dissolution, both parties have rights 
equal.  
2. 
Marriage cannot be celebrated without the free and full consent of the future spouses.  
3. 
The family is the natural and fundamental element of society and has the right to protection from society and the State.  

Article 17  
1. 
Every person, individually or collectively, has the right to property.  
2. 
No one can be arbitrarily deprived of their property.  
Article 18 
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; This right implies the freedom of 
change your religion or belief, as well as the freedom to manifest your religion or belief, alone or in 
common, both in public and private, through teaching, practice, worship and rites.  
Article 19 
Every individual has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, which implies the right not to be disturbed by 
their opinions and to seek, receive and disseminate, without regard to borders, information and ideas by any 
means of expression.  
Article 20° 
1. 
Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.  
2. 
No one can be forced to be part of an association.  
Article 21  
1. 
Everyone has the right to take part in the management of the public affairs of his country, whether directly,
or through freely chosen representatives.  
2. 
Everyone has the right to access, under equal conditions, the public functions of their country.  
3. 
The will of the people is the foundation of the authority of public powers: and it must be expressed through elections 
honest elections to be carried out periodically by universal and equal suffrage, with a secret vote or second process 
equivalent that protects the freedom to vote.  
Article 22  
Every person, as a member of society, has the right to social security; and may legitimately demand the satisfaction of 
indispensable economic, social and cultural rights, thanks to national efforts and international cooperation, of 
harmony with the organization and resources of each country.  
Article 23 
1. 
Everyone has the right to work, to free choice of work, to equitable and satisfactory working conditions 
work and protection against unemployment.  
2. 
Everyone has the right, without any discrimination, to equal pay for equal work.  

3. 
Anyone who works has the right to equitable and satisfactory remuneration, which allows them and their family a 
existence in accordance with human dignity, and supplemented, if possible, by all other means of 
social protection.  
4. 
Everyone has the right to found unions with others and to join unions for the defense 
of your interests.  
Article 24
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, in particular, to a reasonable limitation on the duration of work and 
periodic paid vacation.  
Article 25 
1. 
Everyone has the right to a standard of living sufficient to ensure the health and well-being of themselves and their family
be, mainly in terms of food, clothing, accommodation, medical assistance and also in terms of 
necessary social services, and has the right to security in the event of unemployment, illness, disability, 
widowhood, old age or other cases of loss of means of subsistence due to circumstances independent of the 
your will.  
2. 
Maternity and childhood are entitled to special help and assistance. All children, born in or 
Outside of marriage, they enjoy the same social protection.  
Article 26  
1. 
Everyone has the right to education. Education must be free, at least that corresponding to teaching 
fundamental elementary. Elementary education is mandatory. Technical and professional education must be 
widespread; Access to higher studies must be open to all in full equality, depending on the 
its merit.  
2. 
Education must aim at the full expansion of the human personality and the reinforcement of human rights and 
fundamental freedoms and must promote understanding, tolerance and friendship among all nations and 
all racial or religious groups, as well as the development of the activities of the United Nations for the 
peacekeeping.  
3.
Parents have the priority right to choose the type of education to be given to their children.  
Article 27  
1. 
Everyone has the right to freely take part in the cultural life of the community, to enjoy the arts and 
participate in scientific progress and the benefits that result from it.  
2. 
Everyone has the right to the protection of moral and material interests linked to any scientific, literary production 
or artistic work of your own.  
Article 28  
Everyone has the right to have an order reigning, on the social and international plane, capable of fully 
the rights and freedoms set out in this Declaration are effective.  

Article 29  
1. 
The individual has duties towards the community, outside of which free and full development is not possible. 
of your personality.  
2. 
In the exercise of these rights and the enjoyment of these freedoms, no one is subject except to the limitations 
established by law with the sole aim of promoting recognition and respect for the rights and 
freedoms of others and in order to satisfy the just demands of morality, public order and welfare 
in a democratic society.  
3. 
In no case may these rights and freedoms be exercised contrary to the purposes and principles of the 
United Nations.  
Article 30°  
Nothing in this Declaration may be construed as implying for any State,
group or individual the right to engage in some activity or to perform some act intended to destroy the 
rights and freedoms set out here.