Universal Declaration of Human Rights 
Adopted and proclaimed by the General Assembly in its resolution 217 A (III), of 
December 10, 1948  
Preamble  
Considering that freedom, justice and peace in the world are based on 
recognition of intrinsic dignity and equal and inalienable rights 
of all members of the human family,  
Considering that the ignorance and contempt for the rights 
humans have caused acts of barbarism outrageous to the conscience of the 
humanity; and that has been proclaimed, as the highest aspiration of the 
man, the advent of a world in which human beings, freed from 
fear and misery, enjoy freedom of speech and freedom of 
beliefs,  
Considering it essential that human rights be protected by a 
regime of Law, so that man is not compelled to the supreme 
resource of rebellion against tyranny and oppression,  
Considering also essential to promote the development of friendly relations 
among the nations,  
Considering that the peoples of the United Nations have reaffirmed in the 
Letter your faith in the fundamental rights of man, in dignity and worth 
of the human person and the equal rights of men and women; and it 
have declared their resolve to promote social progress and raise the standard of living 
within a broader concept of freedom,
Considering that Member States have undertaken to ensure, in 
cooperation with the United Nations Organization, universal respect and 
effective to the fundamental rights and freedoms of man, and  
Considering that a common conception of these rights and freedoms is 
the greatest importance for the full fulfillment of said commitment,  
 

 
The General Assembly  
Proclaims the present Universal Declaration of Human Rights as an ideal 
common goal for which all peoples and nations must strive, so that 
both individuals and institutions, constantly drawing inspiration from it, 
promote, through teaching and education, respect for these rights 
and freedoms, and ensure, through progressive measures of a national and 
international law, its universal and effective recognition and application, both among 
the peoples of the Member States as well as among those of the territories placed 
under its jurisdiction.  
Article 1  
All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights and, 
endowed as they are with reason and conscience, they must behave fraternally 
with each other.  
Article 2  
Everyone has the rights and freedoms proclaimed in this Declaration, 
without distinction of race, color, sex, language, religion, political opinion or 
any other nature, national or social origin, economic position, birth or 
any other condition.
Furthermore, no distinction will be made based on political, legal or political status. 
international of the country or territory under whose jurisdiction a person depends, 
whether it is an independent country or a territory under 
fiduciary administration, not autonomous or subject to any other limitation of 
sovereignty.  
Article 3  
Every individual has the right to life, liberty and security of his/her life. 
person.  
 

 
Article 4  
No one will be subjected to slavery or servitude; slavery and trafficking 
Slaves are prohibited in all their forms.  
Article 5  
No one shall be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or cruel treatment or punishment. 
degrading  
Article 6  
Every human being has the right, everywhere, to recognition of their 
legal personality.  
Article 7  
All are equal before the law and have, without distinction, the right to equal protection 
of the law. Everyone has the right to equal protection against all discrimination 
violates this Declaration and against any provocation to such discrimination.  
Article 8  
Everyone has the right to an effective remedy before the national courts. 
competent authorities, to protect them against acts that violate their rights 
fundamental rights recognized by the constitution or by law.  
Article 9  
No one may be arbitrarily detained, imprisoned or exiled.  
Article 10  
Everyone has the right, in conditions of full equality, to be heard
publicly and fairly by an independent and impartial tribunal, for the 
 

 
determination of their rights and obligations or for the examination of any 
accusation against her in criminal matters.  
Article 11  
1. Every person accused of a crime has the right to have his or her identity presumed 
innocence until proven guilty, according to the law and in 
public trial in which all guarantees have been assured 
necessary for its defense.  
2. No one will be condemned for acts or omissions that at the time of 
committed were not criminal under national or international law. 
Nor will a more serious penalty be imposed than the one applicable at the time of 
the commission of the crime.  
Article 12  
No one will be subject to arbitrary interference in their private life, their family, their 
home or his correspondence, or attacks on his honor or reputation. 
Everyone has the right to protection of the law against such interference or 
attacks.  
Article 13  
1. Everyone has the right to move freely and choose their residence 
in the territory of a State.  
2. Everyone has the right to leave any country, including their own, and 
to return to his country.  
Article 14  
1. In case of persecution, everyone has the right to seek asylum, and to 
Enjoy it, in any country.  
 

 
2. This right may not be invoked against a truly judicial action 
originated by common crimes or by acts contrary to the purposes and
principles of the United Nations.  
Article 15  
1. Every person has the right to a nationality.  
2. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality or of the right to 
change nationality.  
Article 16  
1. Men and women, from marriageable age, have the right, without 
any restriction on the grounds of race, nationality or religion, to marry 
and found a family; and will enjoy equal rights regarding the 
marriage, during the marriage and in case of dissolution of the marriage.  
2. Only through the free and full consent of the future spouses can 
get married.  
3. The family is the natural and fundamental element of society and has 
right to protection of society and the State.  
Article 17  
1. Every person has the right to property, individually and collectively.  
2. No one will be arbitrarily deprived of his property.  
Article 18  
Every person has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and 
religion; This right includes the freedom to change religion or belief, as well as 
as the freedom to manifest one's religion or belief, individually and 
collectively, both in public and private, by teaching, practice, 
worship and observance.  
 

 
Article 19  
Every individual has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this 
right includes not being disturbed because of one's opinions, the right to investigate and
receive information and opinions, and to disseminate them, without limitation of borders, 
by any means of expression.  
Article 20  
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of assembly and association 
peaceful.  
2. No one may be forced to belong to an association.  
Article 21  
1. Everyone has the right to participate in the government of their country, 
directly or through freely chosen representatives.  
2. Every person has the right of access, under conditions of equality, to 
the public functions of their country.  
3. The will of the people is the basis of the authority of public power; this 
will will be expressed through authentic choices that will have to be 
be held periodically, by universal and equal suffrage and by vote 
secret or other equivalent procedure that guarantees the freedom of the 
vote.  
Article 22  
Every person, as a member of society, has the right to security 
social, and to obtain, through national effort and international cooperation, 
taking into account the organization and resources of each State, the satisfaction 
of economic, social and cultural rights, essential to their dignity 
and the free development of their personality.  
 

 
Article 23  
1. Every person has the right to work, to free choice of work, to 
equitable and satisfactory conditions of work and protection against 
unemployment. 
2. Every person has the right, without any discrimination, to equal pay for
I work the same.  
3. Every person who works has the right to equitable remuneration and 
satisfactory, which ensures him, as well as his family, an existence 
in accordance with human dignity and that will be completed, in case 
necessary, by any other means of social protection.  
4. Everyone has the right to form unions and to join unions for the 
defense of their interests.  
Article 24  
Every person has the right to rest, to enjoy free time, to a 
reasonable limitation of the duration of work and periodic vacations 
paid.  
Article 25  
1. Everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living that ensures, 
as well as your family, health and well-being, and especially 
food, clothing, housing, medical care and services 
necessary social You also have the right to insurance in case of 
unemployment, illness, disability, widowhood, old age and other cases of loss 
of their means of subsistence due to circumstances independent of their 
will.  
2. Motherhood and childhood have the right to care and assistance 
specials. All children, whether born in wedlock or out of wedlock 
marriage, have the right to equal social protection.  
 

 
Article 26  
1. Everyone has the right to education. Education must be 
free, at least as regards elementary education and 
fundamental. Elementary education will be mandatory. The instruction
technical and professional will have to be generalized; access to studies 
superiors will be the same for all, depending on their respective merits.  
2. Education will aim at the full development of personality 
human rights and the strengthening of respect for human rights and 
fundamental freedoms; will promote understanding, tolerance and 
friendship between all nations and all ethnic or religious groups; and 
promote the development of United Nations activities for 
peacekeeping.  
3. Parents will have the preferential right to choose the type of education 
that will be given to their children.  
Article 27  
1. Everyone has the right to freely take part in cultural life 
of the community, to enjoy the arts and to participate in the progress 
scientific and the benefits that result from it.  
2. Every person has the right to the protection of moral interests and 
materials that correspond to it due to scientific productions, 
literary or artistic works of which she is the author.  
Article 28  
Every person has the right to establish a social and international order 
in which the rights and freedoms proclaimed in this Declaration are made 
fully effective.  
Article 29  
 

 
1. Every person has duties with respect to the community, since only in 
she can freely and fully develop her personality.  
2. In the exercise of their rights and in the enjoyment of their freedoms, all
person will only be subject to the limitations established by law 
with the sole purpose of ensuring the recognition and respect of the 
rights and freedoms of others, and to satisfy the just demands 
of morality, public order and general well-being in a society 
democratic.  
3. These rights and freedoms may under no circumstances be exercised in 
opposition to the purposes and principles of the United Nations. 
Article 30  
Nothing in this Declaration may be interpreted to mean that 
confers any right to the State, a group or a person, to undertake 
and develop activities or carry out acts aimed at the suppression of any 
of the rights and freedoms proclaimed in this Declaration.