universal declaration of human rights
The United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution 217A(III) on December 10, 1948 and promulgated it.
On December 10, 1948, the United Nations General Assembly adopted and promulgated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. This one
After the promulgation of the historic Declaration, the General Assembly requested all member states to publicize it widely and
And “regardless of the political status of the country or territory, mainly in schools and other educational institutions at all levels
The structure is disseminated, displayed, read and explained. ” The full text of the “Declaration” is as follows:
Preface
Whereas respect for the inherent dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family
Recognition is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world,
Whereas disregard and contempt for human rights have developed into barbaric atrocities that taint humanity.
conscience, and a world where everyone enjoys freedom of speech and belief and is free from fear and want
The coming of , has been declared as the highest wish of ordinary people,
Since humanity has resorted to desperate measures to rebel against tyranny and oppression in order to avoid being forced to do so, it is necessary to do so.
To ensure that human rights are protected by the rule of law,
In view of the need to promote the development of friendly relations among countries,
Whereas the peoples of all United Nations countries have reaffirmed in the Charter of the United Nations their right to basic human rights
human rights, dignity and worth of the human person and the equal rights of men and women, and a determination to promote greater freedom of
Due to the social progress and improvement of living standards in China,
Whereas Member States have pledged to cooperate with the United Nations to promote respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
Generally respected and followed,
Whereas a general understanding of these rights and freedoms is essential to the full realization of this vow
of great importance,
Therefore, now, this General Assembly promulgates this Universal Declaration of Human Rights as an affirmation of all peoples and all nations
striving to achieve common standards, with the hope that every individual and social institution will always bear in mind this Declaration,
Strive to promote respect for rights and freedoms through teaching and education, and through national and international
and progressive measures at the international level to ensure that these rights and freedoms are accessible to Member States’ own peoples and within their jurisdictions
be universally and effectively recognized and followed by the people of the lower territories;
Article 1
 

 
All people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience, and
They should be treated in a spirit of brotherly relationship.  
Article 2
Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction as to race, colour,
Gender, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, origin
birth or other status, etc.  
and not on account of political, administrative or international consequences of the country or territory to which a person belongs
The status varies, regardless of whether the territory is an independent territory, a trust territory or a non-autonomous territory.
Administrative territory or in any other situation where sovereignty is limited.  
Article 3
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.  
Article 4
No one shall be held in slavery or servitude; all forms of slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited.
Should be prohibited.  
Article 5
No one may be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or
punishment.  
Article 6
Everyone has the right everywhere to be recognized as a person before the law.  
Article 7
 

 
Everyone is equal before the law and has the right to enjoy equal protection of the law without any discrimination. people
Everyone has the right to equal protection against any act of discrimination and incitement to violation of this Declaration
any act of such discrimination.  
Article 8
Everyone has the right to have his or her rights granted to him by the Constitution or the law infringed upon by a qualified person.
National courts provide effective remedies for such infringements.  
Article 9
No one may be arbitrarily arrested, detained or deported.  
Article 10
Everyone is fully equal and entitled to impartiality and justice by an independent and impartial tribunal.
to determine his rights and obligations and to determine any criminal charges brought against him
control.  
Article 11
1. (1) Any person charged with a criminal offense shall be afforded all necessary guarantees for his or her defence.
A person has the right to be presumed innocent until a trial is held and his guilt is proven in accordance with the law. 
2. (ii) Any act or omission of any person which, at the time it occurs, is not prohibited by national or international law
Those who do not constitute a criminal offense under the law shall not be convicted of a criminal offense. Punishment shall not be more severe than
The legal provisions applicable when committing a crime. 
Article 12
There shall be no arbitrary interference with the private life, family, home and correspondence of any person, his honor and reputation
Reputation must not be attacked. Everyone is entitled to the protection of the law against such interference or attack
hit.  
Article 13
 

 
1. (1) Everyone has the right to free movement and residence within the territory of each State. 
2. (ii) Everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his
country. 
Article 14
1. (1) Everyone has the right to seek and enjoy asylum from persecution in other countries. 
2. (ii) In cases of genuine non-political crimes or violations of the purposes and principles of the United Nations
This right may not be invoked where the person is being prosecuted for committing an act. 
Article 15
1. (1) Everyone has the right to nationality. 
2. (2) No one may be arbitrarily deprived of his or her nationality, nor shall his or her right to change his or her nationality be denied
Profit. 
Article 16
1. (1) Adult men and women have the right to marry and grow up without any restriction on race, nationality or religion.
Establish a family. In terms of marriage, they should have
equal rights. 
2. (ii) Marriage may be entered into only with the free and complete consent of both the man and the woman. 
3. (3) The family is a natural and basic social unit and should be protected by society and the state.
protect. 
Article 17
1. (1) Everyone shall have sole ownership of property as well as joint ownership with others. 
2. (2) No one may be arbitrarily deprived of his or her property. 
Article 18
 

 
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes the right to change his religion
or freedom of belief, and of teaching, practice, ritual, individually or collectively, publicly or privately
Worship and precepts represent his freedom of religion or belief.  
Article 19
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes the right to hold opinions without
Freedom from interference, and to seek, receive and impart information through any media and regardless of frontiers
and freedom of thought.  
Article 20
1. (1) Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and of association. 
2. (ii) No one may be forced to belong to a group. 
Article 21
1. (1) Everyone has the right to take part in the governance of his country, either directly or through freely chosen representatives. 
2. (2) Everyone has the right to equal opportunity to participate in the public service of his or her country. 
3. (3) The will of the people is the basis of government power; this will should be expressed regularly and truly
This should be reflected in legitimate elections, which should be based on universal and equal voting rights and should be based on
A secret ballot or equivalent free voting procedure shall be conducted. 
Article 22
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to enjoy social security and has the right to enjoy his personal
Economic, social and cultural rights necessary for the free development of dignity and personality
This realization is achieved through national efforts and international cooperation and in accordance with national organizations and
Resource status.  
Article 23
1. (1) Everyone has the right to work, free choice of occupation, and fair and suitable working conditions
files and enjoy protection against unemployment. 
 

 
2. (2) Everyone has the right to equal pay for equal work without any discrimination. 
3. (3) Everyone who works has the right to enjoy fair and appropriate remuneration, which is guaranteed to enable him to perform his job
People and their families have a living condition that meets their needs, supplemented by other means when necessary
social security. 
4. (4) Everyone has the right to organize and join trade unions to safeguard their interests. 
Article 24
Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitations on working hours and regular payment
The right to take paid leave.  
Article 25
1. (1) Everyone has the right to enjoy life necessary for the health and well-being of himself and of his family.
standard of living, including food, clothing, housing, medical care and necessary social services;
To unemployment, illness, disability, widowhood, old age or other uncontrollable circumstances
When a person loses the ability to earn a living, he or she is entitled to enjoy protection. 
2. (ii) Mothers and children have the right to special care and assistance. All children, regardless of marriage or birth
Anyone born out of wedlock should enjoy the same social protection. 
Article 26
1. (1) Everyone has the right to education, and education should be free, at least at the primary and basic level.
The stage should be like this. Primary education should be compulsory. Technical and vocational education should be made universal
Established everywhere. Higher education should be open to all equally on the basis of merit. 
2. (ii) The purpose of education is to fully develop human personality and strengthen awareness of human rights and fundamental freedoms
By respect. Education should promote communication among all countries, ethnic groups or religious groups.
understanding, tolerance and friendship and should promote the activities of the United Nations in the maintenance of peace. 
3. (3) Parents have the right to give priority to the type of education their children should receive. 
Article 27
 

 
1. (1) Everyone has the right to freely participate in the cultural life of society, enjoy art, and share science
Progress and the benefits it generates. 
2. (ii) Everyone's right arises out of any scientific, literary or artistic work created by him
Their spiritual and material interests have the right to enjoy protection. 
Article 28
Everyone has the right to demand a social and international order in which the principles set out in this Declaration
The rights and freedoms contained therein can be fully realized.  
Article 29
1. (1) Everyone has obligations to society, because only in society can his individuality be possible
Receive freedom and full development. 
2. (2) Everyone, in exercising his rights and freedoms, is subject only to the restrictions established by law.
The sole purpose of establishing such restrictions is to ensure due respect for the rights and freedoms of others
Some recognition and respect, and adapt to morality and public order in a democratic society
and the legitimate needs of the general welfare. 
3. (iii) These rights and freedoms may not be exercised contrary to the Union under any circumstances.
Purposes and Principles of the United Nations. 
Article 30
Nothing in this Declaration shall be construed as tacitly endorsing the right of any country, group or individual to
Any activity or behavior aimed at undermining any of the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration.