On December 10, 1948, the United Nations 
they gathered together and approved it and made it known to the people 
rights, which is all that is said in this booklet.  
The conference discussed the rights of all human beings 
to be introduced, taught, and read in every country, 
it should be made known in all kinds of educational institutions 
and the differences between these nations.  
 
UNITED NATIONS RECOGNITION  
RIGHTS OF ALL PEOPLE 
The beginning of the  
NOTE: Freedom and peace in the world 
life is well rooted in the following: Everyone 
it is good that no one should waste it since our mother gave birth to us 
we must be treated and treated equally.  
LOOK: People have gotten to all kinds of bad things, 
even if they are not fully aware of or aware of human rights 
ignoring them, we all want the future 
days of well-being; in all fears and suffering 
when poverty is eliminated, everyone will have the freedom to speak out 
what is in our heads, and we will boldly receive what knowledge 
and what we want.  
NOTE: There must be a Human Rights Defender 
rules that are impartial 
help the oppressed and exploited who want to justify their rights.
NOTE: It is for the nations of the world to build friendships 
we have to desire in our hearts and that desire 
we must disperse.  
NOTE: The nations that belong to the United Nations are mentioned in this publication 
confirmed their belief in the rights of the Iliw and 
agreed that people are equal regardless of gender 
recognize that he has the same rights. All of these things well 
knowing that the motivation of our freedom is even more beautiful 
let’s work to make our country great.  
NOTE: The nations that belong to the United Nations have agreed 
human rights and freedoms are universal 
to be received by the  
NOTE NYA: Human rights and freedoms are well recognized 
if it is, it will be true.  
HUMAN RIGHTS RECOGNIZED IN THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
THAT IT WAS  
The nations that came to the great treaty are in this book 
recognize universal human rights, so that people 
wherever they live, they can see this qeliqa with respect and freedom 
to learn to live; to others as much as they can 
they will make it known that all these things are true; these will be done 
living in the countries belonging to the union or this 
the shelter of the nations.  
FIRST (1) 
All human beings are born free and have all rights 
we are equal. Because we are wise, we are like a peaceful family 
we owe life to everyone.  
SECOND (2)
The rights principles contained in this document are for all of us, 
it doesn’t matter what a person’s race or gender is 
nor does it matter how he speaks or what god he believes in 
nor from what form of government he thought it would be 
whether he is poor or rich or whatever he is.  
All nations, free or not, are diverse 
we have a government, and some are dependent on other nations, 
but in any case we should not be treated differently.  
THIRD PART (3) 
Everyone has the right to life and liberty 
and to be protected.  
FOURTH (4) 
No one can be a usurped slave, it is prohibited in all forms 
enslavement and human trafficking.  
FIFTH (5) 
No one can be subjected to any kind of suffering, either 
we cannot be punished for dishonoring our humanity.  
SIXTH (6) 
Everyone has the right to a trial wherever they are 
to be validated.  
SEVENTH (7) 
All human beings have equal rights under the law 
to be, the law must protect us impartially. 
We also have the right to be against us for ignoring these teachings 
 

 
of those who want to stand up. We are also entitled to these teachings 
and to be protected by the law in the event of sudden error.  
FOURTH (8)
Everyone has the right to a fair hearing 
protection against our legal rights 
we must be protected from those who do.  
CHAPTER NINE (9) 
No one is detained without knowing his fault, 
imprisonment or exile.  
TENTH (10) 
All people are equal with impartial justice 
we have the right to be heard and the right to a trial 
our duty or right to know. What he is accused of 
it should be clearly shown to us so that we can learn even if we are far away.  
ELEVEN (11) 
1. LIew persons are innocent of any crime charged against them 
we have the right to assert ourselves, according to the law 
until we are found guilty at trial. There is also the trial 
our rights are guaranteed and truly defended 
to be the ones to be.  
2. Not sentencing a person for something he or she has done 
punishment if the act in the days before the law 
when he goes out and proves that it is a crime. The punishment will be the 
only by the punishments of the law in the days of his sin.  
 

 
TWELVE (12) 
No one can mess up our lives for no reason either 
and of our families, he cannot enter in vain 
to our homes, and our letters are not to be ieeed in vain. 
Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference.  
THIRTEEN (13)
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement, 
we also have the right to housing in our country.  
2. Everyone has the right to a nationality or 
to leave any country and the same 
to return to our country.  
FOURTEEN (14) 
1. If a person is persecuted as the government of his country does not 
because he thinks, then he is entitled to immigration 
to flee and take refuge.  
2. Prosecuted for a real crime in his country 
man cannot rely on human rights other than 
to flee to a country and live there in freedom.  
FIFTEEN (15) 
1. Everyone has the right to a nationality 
to belong to us.  
2. This right may not be arbitrarily deprived of its rights. 
We also have the right to refuse to change our nationality 
someone to stop us.  
SIXTEEN (16) 
 

 
1. When a man and a woman reach the age of marriage, they are already there 
our right to marry and have a family, no 
it doesn’t matter what race or nationality we are, whether we are male or female 
woman have equal rights in our marriage good 
to live and to share.  
2. A man and a woman cannot marry without their consent.  
3. Parenthood is the right of the whole family to the protection of the state 
we have the right, for we are a great family that develops the nation 
we are the ones.
SEVENTEEN (17) 
1. Everyone has the right to be alone or in pairs 
to have property with people.  
2. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his property.  
EIGHTEEN (18) 
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, 
conscience and in what god 
and to make us believe. According to this right, we are free 
to accept religion and to believe in any form 
to do the job. We can do it alone or in a group 
that belief and can be taught in the home or 
anywhere.  
NINETEEN (19) 
Everyone has the right to express their opinions 
we have the right to these things without any restriction 
we can also share our thoughts and accept the opinions of others.  
TWENTY (20) 
 

 
1. We have the right to freedom of assembly and association 
and to build peace.  
2. No one shall be compelled to attend any meeting 
to willingly belong.  
TWENTY-ONE (21) 
1. Everyone has the right to the government of his country 
to serve ourselves, either personally or 
even if we choose what we want.  
2. Everyone has the right to equal access to public service in his country 
to enter homes and receive care.  
3. The power of the government is that all the people want it
as soon as we give authority, we acknowledge that desire 
by voting freely; we must make that vote no one else 
knows so that we can vote for what we want.  
TWENTY-TWO (22) 
Everyone has the right to education, property and 
to be protected in all our ways so that everything is good 
to get us here. We get that assurance by: 
The government should be organized and do what it can for us 
with the people of our country, he must act for our benefit according to his strength or 
and foreign aid.  
TWENTY-THREE (23) 
1. LIew human beings have the right to freedom of religion, 
we have the right to work even if we are unemployed 
to seek and find, if no one wants to 
can we be fired from our jobs.  
 

 
2. LIew human beings have the right to freedom of expression 
to be paid according to our work.  
3. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each State 
that we may receive our reward according to good deeds 
the well-being of the whole family; otherwise he must receive help 
of supporters raised for the purpose.  
4. Everyone has the right to freedom of association with others 
our right to form or belong to such groups 
to vechiku ourselves.  
TWENTY-FOUR (24) 
Everyone has the right to rest and relaxation
we have the right to smile, and we have the right to continue as much as we can every 
to work during the day and to take our vacation. 
TWENTY-FIVE (25) 
1. Everyone has the right to an adequate standard of living for himself and his family 
fed, well clothed and healthy. He has the right, too 
we are entitled to protection, even if we are disabled, widowed, or widower 
whether you are old or young; we also have the right 
even if we cannot find a job or suddenly have something to support ourselves 
to be protected in the event of loss.  
2. Pregnant women and children have rights 
are to be properly maintained. Married or not 
all children have equal rights regardless of whether they are born in a marriage 
to be protected.  
TWENTY-SIX (26) 
 

 
1. Everyone has the right to education. Not at all 
primary school is free, so it is compulsory for everyone with primary school 
to be able to. According to our good note, it is all more 
we can educate ourselves so that we can achieve our goals.  
2. The result of education shall be the welfare of the people and all 
his rights are well recognized so that his freedom is well respected 
to be available. We need to be calm and understand each other 
with nations, other races, and in any god 
and with the believers. We must also support the United Nations 
peace in the world.  
3. Parents have a prior right to education
and to receive our family.  
TWENTY-SEVEN (27) 
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of movement and residence within the borders of each State 
to help us in any situation. We can help in every way 
our country to develop beautifully and we have the right 
to accept what the city has to offer.  
2. If we have mentally removed something of value or 
we can do something that no one else has done before 
we are entitled to the value of those creations 
to protect the existing.  
TWENTY-EIGHT (28) 
We have rights in our country and in all countries 
to be a human rights organization, so that all this 
to achieve our perceived rights and freedoms.  
TWENTY-NINE (29) 
 

 
1. Everyone is free in our country, therefore for our country 
we have a duty.  
2. The only way to enforce our rights or freedoms is by law 
may prevent us, such as the rights of others or freedoms 
their existence is not usurped, so that conflicts do not 
to be available. So that everyone is in his own country 
to live in peace.  
3. These rights and freedoms may in no case be exercised 
can be, if in any form of allied nations 
if it is against his will.  
THIRTY (30) 
No one or government can rely on this quote
would do anything, our rights and freedoms 
to usurp the country.