"Universal Declaration of Human Rights"
  
(Adopted by the 3rd United Nations General Assembly on December 10, 1948)
  
<Preamble>
  
Recognizing the inherent dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of human society;
recognition is the basis of freedom, justice and peace in the world,
 
Ignoring and disrespecting human rights has led to barbaric acts that have trampled on the conscience of humanity,
The arrival of a world free of fear and want, with freedom of religion and religion, is the highest priority of ordinary people.
It was declared as the desire of
 
lest men resort to rebellion as a last resort against tyranny and oppression.
In order to protect human rights, it is essential to protect human rights through the rule of law.
Since it is essential to promote the development of friendly relations between countries,
The peoples of the United Nations are committed to fundamental human rights, human dignity and worth, and to
to reaffirm our belief in the equal rights of men and women, and to enjoy greater social freedom.
Determined to promote progress and an improved standard of living,
 
Member States, in cooperation with the United Nations, shall promote universal respect for and observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Having pledged to achieve promotion,
  
A common understanding of these rights and freedoms is essential to complete this Covenant.
Both are important, so
THEREFORE, the United Nations General Assembly,
 
Each individual and each institution in society must keep this Universal Declaration of Human Rights in mind, and
 

 
Both among their own peoples and among the peoples of territories under the jurisdiction of Member States.
To promote respect for rights and freedoms through guidance and education, and to ensure their universality.
that all peoples and all nations should strive to ensure by
We hereby promulgate this Declaration of Human Rights as a common standard to be achieved.   
 
  
Article 1
All human beings are born free and entitled to dignity and rights.
be equal in terms of Human beings are endowed with reason and conscience, and are the same as each other.
We must act with a spirit of honour.  
 
Article 2
All people are free of any race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion,
 
national or social origin, property, family lineage, or other status or similar characteristics;
 
all the rights enshrined in this Declaration, without discrimination of any kind;
 
can enjoy benefits and freedom. 
Furthermore, if the country or territory to which the individual belongs is an independent country, the trust territory
 
If there is, it is a non-self-governing territory or is under some other restriction on sovereignty.
 
based on the political, jurisdictional or international status of that country or region, regardless of
 
There should be no discrimination of any kind. 
 

 
 
Article 3
Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person.   
Article 4
No one shall be enslaved or subjected to drudgery. slavery and slavery
Buying and selling in any form is prohibited.   
Article 5
No person shall be subjected to torture or cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
You will not be punished.   
Article 6
Every person, everywhere, is recognized as a person under the law.
have the right to be   
Article 7
All people are equal before the law and there is no discrimination of any kind.
have the right to equal protection of the laws. Anyone who violates this declaration
against any discrimination that may occur or incite such discrimination.
have the right to equal protection even for acts that   
Article 8
Everyone violates the fundamental rights granted by the constitution or law
the right to an effective remedy by a competent national court for their actions;
have   
Article 9
 

 
No one may be arbitrarily arrested, detained or deported.   
Article 10
Every person shall have his or her rights and obligations and criminal liability determined.
be subject to a fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial court.
have full equal rights to   
Article 11
1. Every person charged with a crime shall have all security necessary for his or her defense.
 
Until proven guilty in accordance with the law in a public trial with disabilities.
,
 
have the right to be presumed innocent;  
2. No person shall commit any act which at the time of its commission did not constitute a crime under national or international law.
 
shall not be found guilty for any act or omission. Also, when a crime is committed
 
No penalty shall be imposed greater than the penalty applicable to.   
Article 12
No one can do whatever they want with their private affairs, family, home or correspondence.
 
shall not be subject to interference or attacks on their honor and reputation. people
 
All persons shall be entitled to the protection of the law against such interference or attack.   
Article 13
 

 
1. Everyone has the right to move and reside freely within the borders of each country.
 
have 
2. Everyone has the right to leave his own country or any other country and to return to his own country.
 
have an advantage.   
Article 14
1. Everyone should seek and enjoy refuge from persecution in another country.
 
have the right to have. 
2. This right protects against non-political crimes or acts contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
It cannot be adopted in cases where the prosecution is solely based on
Article 15
1. Everyone has the right to a nationality. 
     
2. No person has the right to be deprived of his nationality or to change his nationality at will.
No benefits will be denied.   
Article 16
1. Adult men and women are not subject to any restrictions based on race, nationality, or religion.
have the right to get married and start a family without having to do so. An adult man and woman are married
have equal rights with respect to marriage during marriage and upon its dissolution.  
2. Marriage shall be by free and complete consent of both parties willing to marry.
Only holds true. 
3. The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is a vital part of the security of society and the country.
have the right to protection.   
Article 17
 

 
1. Everyone has the right to own property alone or jointly with others.
have 
2. No one shall be deprived of his property at will.   
Article 18
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This
The right includes the freedom to change one's religion or beliefs and to
public or private, through proselytizing, events, worship, and ceremonies.
including the freedom to express   
Article 19
Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression. this right
freedom to hold one's opinion without interference and by any means possible.
and seek and receive information and ideas, whether or not they cross national borders.
and the freedom to communicate.   
Article 20
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful assembly and association.      
2. No one shall be forced to belong to an association.   
Article 21
1. All people, directly or through freely elected representatives, shall
have the right to participate in politics;  
2. All people have the right to equal public office in their country.      
3. The will of the people must be the basis of governing power. this intention
must be expressed through regular and genuine elections. this election
shall be by equal universal suffrage and shall be by secret ballot or by
It must be carried out through a voting procedure that guarantees the same freedoms as those in the United States.   
 

 
Article 22
Everyone, as a member of society, has the right to receive social security, and
Through national efforts and international cooperation, and depending on each country's organization and resources,
The economic and social
have the right to the realization of social and cultural rights;   
younger brother article 23
1. Everyone should be able to work, freely choose their occupation, and enjoy fair and favorable labor conditions.
have the right to secure employment and protection against unemployment. 
     
2. Everyone shall be entitled to equal work without any discrimination.
be entitled to equal remuneration. 
3. All workers shall treat themselves and their families with dignity worthy of human dignity.
Receive fair and favorable remuneration that guarantees a good quality of life and, if necessary, work with others.
can be supplemented by social protection measures. 
    
4. Everyone may organize trade unions to protect their interests and
have the right to join.   
Article 24
Everyone is entitled to reasonable limits on working hours and holidays, including regular paid holidays.
have the right to breath and leisure;   
Article 25
1. All people should support themselves through food, clothing, shelter, medical care, and necessary social facilities.
and the right to a standard of living adequate for the health and well-being of their families, as well as the right to unemployment and sickness.
,
If you are unable to live due to physical or mental disability, death of a spouse, old age, or other force majeure circumstances,
have the right to security; 
 

 
2. Mothers and children have the right to special protection and assistance. all children
Children enjoy the same social protection whether born in wedlock or not.   
Article 26
1. Everyone has the right to education. Education is at least elementary
The basic and basic stages must be free of charge. Primary education is
Must be mandatory. Technical and vocational education is generally available
Higher education should be accessible to all according to ability.
It must be open and open. 
2. Education should teach the subject of the full development of the personality and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It must be the purpose. Education is available to all national or racial or religious
To promote mutual understanding, tolerance and friendship among groups, and to maintain peace.
Therefore, it must promote the activities of the United Nations. 
     
3. Parents have a preferential right to choose the type of education provided to their children.   
Article 27
1. All people are free to participate in the cultural life of society, appreciate the arts, and
have the right to share in scientific progress and its benefits.      
2. All human beings originate from scientific, literary or artistic works that they create.
have the right to have their spiritual and material interests protected;   
Article 28
Everyone should live in a society in which the rights and freedoms enshrined in this Declaration are fully realized.
and the right to international order.   
Article 29
1. Every human being can exist only in the free and full development of his personality.
We have a duty to society that is possible.
2. In exercising his own rights and freedoms, every person shall respect the rights of others.
to ensure the due recognition and respect of interests and grounds, and in a democratic society.
with the sole aim of meeting the legitimate demands of morality, public order and the general welfare.
subject only to restrictions established by law.  
3. These rights and freedoms shall in no case be inconsistent with the purposes and principles of the United Nations.
It must not be exercised in violation of the rules.   
Article 30
Nothing in this Declaration applies to any country, group or person.
engaging in or engaging in activities aimed at destroying the rights and freedoms listed in this Declaration;
shall not be construed as granting any right to perform any act for such purposes.