Chapter 1: Planning

Sun Tzu said that a soldier is important to the country, the place of life and death, the path of existence and death, and must be understood.

Therefore, to go through this, I have five things, and to test this, I have a plan, and I search for the feeling. The first is the path, the second is the heaven, the third is the earth, the fourth is the general, and the fifth is the law.

The path is for people to be on the same page as those above them, to die with them and to live with them, and not to be afraid of danger. Heaven is yin and yang, cold and heat, and tense. Earth is far and near, dangerous and easy, wide and narrow, and life and death. General means wisdom, faith, benevolence, courage, and strictness. The law is the system, the official way, and the main purpose.

Although the general will not hear of these five people, those who know this will win, and those who do not know will not win. Therefore, I made a plan to prove this, and searched for the sentiment. It is said that the lord is wise, the general is capable, the heaven and earth are worthy, the law is done, the soldiers are strong, the soldiers are trained, and the reward and punishment are obvious. We know the outcome of this battle.

When you listen to my plan for the future, if you use it, you will definitely win, so don't stick to it. If you don't listen to my plan, you will definitely lose if you use this plan, so don't leave it. If it is used as a plan or a benefit, it will gain momentum and help others. Power means controlling power based on profit.

A soldier is a swindler.

Therefore, ability indicates incompetence, use indicates disuse, near indicates far away, far indicates near, using advantage to tempt, turmoil to seize, fruit to prepare for, strong to avoid, anger to deflect, baseness to make proud, while to work on, parent to separate from. Attack their inadequacies and don't appear unexpectedly. This is a victory for the soldiers, and there is no need to tell them first.

Those who still win by calculating without fighting should have many points to gain. Those who do not win by calculating without fighting will have little to gain from calculation. The more arithmetic wins, the less arithmetic does not win. Don't give me a scolding or leave me alone. When we look at this with this in mind, we can see the outcome.

Chapter 2: Strategy

According to Sun Tzu, the general rule for using an army is to spend 1,000 yen on a chariot, 1,000 yen on a chariot, 100,000 li in armor, and 1,000 li in order to provide food, including domestic and foreign expenses, expenses for guests, materials for glue and lacquer, and armor for chariots.

If you use that battle for a long time, it will dull your soldiers and frustrate your sharp abilities. If you attack a castle, you will give in, and if you expose your master for a long time, you will be useless for the country. When it dulls the soldiers, frustrates the sharp, weakens the force, and destroys the currency, it happens that the lords take advantage of the negative effects. Even if there is a wise man, he will not make things good afterward.

Therefore, even though the soldiers hear about their haste, they still have no idea how long they have been skilled. It's been a long time since we were soldiers, but no one has benefited the country yet. Therefore, anyone who does not know all the harms of military service cannot know also all the benefits of military service.

Those who use their soldiers well will not serve again, nor will they be given food a third time.

They take their business from the country and their food from the enemy. Therefore, there should be enough military rations. If the country is poor, it must be transported far away. If they are exported far away, the peasants become poor. Those who are close to the teacher must sell their goods. If you sell, the peasants will lose their fortune. If he had lost his fortune, he would suddenly be forced to give up his finances, and in the middle of the plains, he would leave home empty-handed, with the expenses of a peasant, and seven in ten. The expenses of the court nobles, broken chariots and horses, armored arrows, turrets and turrets, hillock ox carts, and six of them are left in tenths. Therefore, a wise general serves his purpose and feeds on the enemy. Eating one enemy's plow is equivalent to twenty koku to me, and one koku from a tree is equivalent to twenty koku to me.
Therefore, those who kill their enemies become angry. Those who take advantage of the enemy are money. Therefore, if you win ten cars in a chariot battle, you will reward the one who wins first, and then you will raise the flag, gather your chariots to ride on them, and feed them by doing well. This is called gaining strength by defeating the enemy.

Therefore, soldiers value victory. Don't cherish the past. Therefore, a general who knows his soldiers is the leader of the people and the leader of the nation's security.

Chapter 3: Attack

According to Sun Tzu, the law of military service is best for fulfilling the nation, and second only for destroying it.

Defeating the army is the best, defeating the army is the second best. Completing the journey is the best, and breaking the journey comes second. Completing one's graduation is considered the best, and breaking one is second. Completing the 5th grade is considered the best, and breaking the 5th grade is the second best.

For this reason, a man who wins a hundred battles and wins a hundred battles is nothing but a good man. It is a good man who submits to the soldiers of men without a fight.

Therefore, the superior soldiers attack the plot. Next, cut the intersection. Next, kill the soldiers. Below that, attack the castle. The law of siege is unavoidable.

Mastering the turrets, turrets, and turrets, as well as being able to use instruments, will take place in March. The distance will be increased again in March. If the general cannot defeat the enemy and attacks him, he will kill one-third of the warriors, and if he cannot escape from the castle, it will be a disaster for the attack.

Therefore, those who use their soldiers well will have no choice but to fight even if they succumb to human soldiers. Even if you overtake someone's castle, it is no use attacking it. It will be a long time before you destroy someone's country. We will definitely fight against the world with all our might. Therefore, you should make the most of your profits without being wary. This is the law of attack.

Therefore, the law of war is: if you have ten, you should surround it, if you have five, you should attack it, if you multiply it, you should divide it, if you are an enemy, you should fight against it, if you have few, you should evade it, and if you do not, you should avoid it. Therefore, the strength of a small enemy is the strength of a great enemy.

The general is the official of the country. If there is support, the country will always be strong, and if there is a lack of support, the country will always be weak. Therefore, there are three reasons why your army may suffer. They tell the army to go forward, not knowing that the army should go forward, and tell them to retreat, not knowing that the army has no choice but to retreat. This is called ``compromising the military.''

If you don't know about the three armies and follow the same politics as the three armies, the soldiers will be confused. If you don't know the power of the three armies and share the duties of the three armies, you will be suspicious of the soldiers. When the three armies are already confused and doubtful, the lords are in trouble. This is called ``disturbing the army and gaining victory.''

Therefore, there are five ways to know victory.

Those who know when to fight and when not to fight will win. Those who understand the business of the masses will win. Those who have the same desires above and below will win. Those who wait for fear with fear will win. Those who cannot be controlled by the general will win.

These five are the way to know victory. Therefore, it is said that if you know him and know yourself, you will fight a hundred battles and lose very little. If you don't know him and know yourself, you'll win or lose. If you don't know him and don't know yourself, you'll inevitably end up dying every time you fight.

Chapter 4: Katahen
Sun Tzu said that those who fought well in the past had no choice but to win first, and then waited for the enemy to win. It is your fault that you should not win, but it is the enemy that should win. Therefore, those who fight well should not be forced to win well, but they should not be forced to win against their enemies. Therefore, it is said that victory should be known, but nothing can be done.

Those who should not win must protect. Those who should win must attack. To defend, you have to have enough, and to attack, you have to have more. Those who protect well will be stored under the Nine Earths, and those who attack well will move above the Nine Heavens. Therefore, protect yourself well and achieve victory.

It is not for the good and the good to see victory, but only for the common people to see. It is not a good person who says that winning a battle will bring good to the world. Therefore, it is not too much to raise Akiyoshi. I can't see the sun and moon with my eyes open. It takes a smart ear to hear thunder.
Those who fight well, so-called in ancient times, are those who win when it is easy to win. Therefore, if a person who fights well wins, there will be no fame or valor. Therefore, it makes no difference that the battle was won. Those who do not differ will always win wherever they choose. We must win against those who have already lost. Therefore, those who fight well stand on the ground of invincibility, and do not lose the defeat of their enemies. For this reason, a victorious army first wins and then seeks battle, and a defeated army first fights and then seeks victory.

Those who use soldiers well cultivate the Tao and uphold the Dharma. Therefore, they often govern in a win-lose manner.

The art of war is, as Ichi says, time. The amount mentioned in second. Number three says. The name of the fourth. According to Go, it's a win. Earth produces degree, degree produces quantity, quantity produces number, number produces title, and title produces victory. Therefore, it is as if a victorious army were hailing a bolt with a bolt, and a defeated army was as if calling a bolt with a bolt.

As soon as the victorious people are forced into battle, it will be like deciding Sekisui into a thousand valleys.

Chapter 5: Seihen

According to Sun Tzu, governing the masses and ruling the few are like fractions. This is the epitome of making the masses fight and making the few fight. The people of the three armies must accept the enemy and be defeated, so this is what they should do. The addition of soldiers is like throwing a bow at an egg, but it is true and false.

In general, battles are won through righteousness and strangeness. Therefore, those who produce good and strange things are like the heavens and the earth, which have no end, and are like the streams and rivers, which are endless. It ends and begins again like this every day and every month. It takes four o'clock to die and be born again. Even though there are only five voices, the strangeness of the five voices is so great that you can't help but listen to it. Although there are only five colors, the transformation of the five colors is a must-see. Although the taste is only five, the strangeness of the five tastes can be overcome and must not be tasted.

Although the fighting force is nothing more than a strange one, the Kiyoshi incident can be won and there is no need to be in trouble. What happens when something goes wrong is like an endless cycle. Who cares about this?

It was the force of the rushing water that caused the stones to drift. It is a turning point that the eagle bird speeds up and ends in failure. For this reason, those who fight well will have a strong fight and a short fight. A force is like a crossbow, and a knot is like an opportunity.

Riot arises in Osamu, fear arises in courage, and weakness arises in power. There are many rebellions. Courage is power. A weak form is a form.

Therefore, those who move their enemies in a good manner will ensure that if they do what they want, the enemy will definitely follow what they do, and if they plan on doing so, the enemy will definitely take what they do. Move it with advantage and wait for it with grace.

Therefore, those who fight well seek this as strength, and do not blame others. Therefore, he chooses his people well and does not rely on his own forces. When you let someone in your power lead you into battle, it's like turning a stone into stone. The nature of wood and stone is that when it is safe, it is still; when it is dangerous, it moves; when it goes, it stops; when it is circular, it moves. Therefore, the force that makes people fight for good is the force that turns a round stone into a thousand mountains.

Chapter 6: Truth and fiction

According to Sun Tzu, those who go to the battlefield first and wait for the enemy will suffer, while those who go to the battlefield later and fight the battle will work hard. Therefore, those who fight well do not let others do to them. If you often act as an enemy, you will benefit from this. It is often the enemy's fault that causes harm. Therefore, if you have an enemy, you will work hard on it, if you are tired of it, you will eat it, and if it is cheap, you will move it.

If you end up in a place where you will inevitably end up, if you end up in a place where you don't want to, and if you don't work your way through a thousand miles, you have to go through a no-man's land. The only way to attack and capture something is to attack the areas that cannot be protected. The only way to be strong when defending is to protect the areas that cannot be attacked. Therefore, those who attack well do not know their enemy or where he is defending. Those who protect well do not know the enemy or where he will attack. It may be subtle or subtle, but it reaches the point of intangibility. Is it God? I wonder if it is God, until it becomes silent. Therefore, he often takes command of the enemy.
The only way to proceed is to get rid of that falsehood. If you can't retreat and pursue it, you can't reach it quickly. Therefore, if I want to fight, the enemy may raise his bases and deepen his trenches, but if he has no choice but to fight against me, I must attack where he can save me. If I did not wish to fight, I would mark the land and protect it, but the enemy, who has no choice but to fight me, must go to that place.

Therefore, if I do not form people into My own form, that is, I will be able to understand the enemy. If we are united as one, and our enemies are divided into ten, then we will attack the one with these ten. In other words, we are many and our enemies are few. If I smite the few with the masses, those who fight with me will be destroyed. You must not know the land where we will fight together. If you don't know, there are many people the enemy is prepared for. If the enemy has many prepared, then those who fight alongside me are few. Therefore, if you prepare for the front, that is, there is less in the rear; if you prepare for the rear, that is, less in front; if you prepare on the left, that is, less on the right; if you prepare on the right, that means less on the left; and if you have nothing to prepare, that is, there is no lack. Widowhood is something that people are prepared for. The crowd prepares others for themselves.

Therefore, if you know the place of battle and the day of battle, you should fight a thousand miles. If you do not know the place of the battle and the day of the battle, the left cannot save the right, the right cannot save the left, the front cannot save the rear, and the rear cannot save the front. No matter what you say, it's tens of miles away, and several miles nearby. Even though the Ewes have a large number of soldiers, it will not be of any use to us in terms of victory or defeat. Therefore, he says, victory must be achieved. Even though the enemy is many, we should not fight.

Therefore, by planning this, you will know the plan of gain and loss, by creating this, you will know the principle of movement, by forming this, you will know the place of life and death, and by following this, you will know where there is surplus and lack.

Therefore, the ultimate form of a soldier is formlessness. If it is intangible, it will be impossible for the deep to see, and even the wise will be unable to plot. Although victory may be confused because of the form, the public will never know. People know the form of the reason why I win, but they do not know the form of the reason that controls my victory. Therefore, even if the battle is won, it does not take revenge, but responds to the form without question.

The shape of the soldier resembles water. The shape of the water is downward, avoiding heights. The shape of a soldier avoids reality and shoots the void. Water controls its flow depending on the earth, and soldiers control their victory depending on the enemy. Therefore, soldiers have no permanent presence, and water has no permanent form. Those who win by changing depending on the enemy are often called gods. Therefore, there is no eternal victory in the five elements, there is no permanent position in the four o'clocks, there is a short and long length in the day, and there is death and birth in the moon.

Chapter 7: Military War

Sun Tzu said that there is nothing more difficult than a military war to use soldiers, for a general to receive orders from the prince, to unite his army, to listen to the people, and to live in peace. The hardships of military warfare are determined through detours and hardships. Therefore, I take a detour, take advantage of the opportunity to tempt others, start after others, and arrive before others. This is someone who knows the tricks of detours.

Therefore, military wars are profitable and military wars are dangerous. If you raise an army and fight for your interests, you will not be able to reach it, but if you entrust your army to fight for your interests, you will be overwhelmed. For this reason, if you don't give in to the army, you die, if you don't have food, you die, and if you don't give in, you die. For this reason, he wraps his arms around him and crosses over, and when he crosses the road, doubles the distance, and fights for advantage over a hundred li, he forces the three generals to attack him. The strong will go first, the weary will lag behind, and the law is ten and one. When you fight for advantage over 50 li, you insult the superior general. That law is half way done. When competing for advantage over a distance of 30 li, the difference is two-thirds. With this, you will understand the difficulties of military war.
Therefore, those who do not know the plans of the various nations will not be able to associate with each other in advance. Those who do not know the shapes of mountains, forests, and mountains cannot go to war. Those who do not use the guidance will never gain the advantage of the earth.

Therefore, soldiers stand with deceit, move with profit, and make changes with division. Therefore, its speed is like the wind, its slowness is like a forest, its encroachment is like fire, its immobility is like a mountain, its incomprehensibility is like a shadow, and its movement is like a thunderclap. He divides his people in order to raid the village, divides his interests in roaming the land, and moves with authority at stake. The one who knows ahead of time the detour will win. This is the law of military war.

According to the military government, ``Even when I say it, I cannot hear it, so I make a golden drum.When I see it, I cannot see it, so I make a flying flag.'' That's why the golden drum and the flag catch everyone's attention. If a person is already single-minded, that is, even the brave cannot move forward alone, and the coward cannot retreat alone. It is law to use these people. Therefore, the fact that there are many fire drums in night battles and many flying flags in daytime battles changes people's perceptions.

Therefore, you should steal your attention from the three armies, and your heart from the general. For this reason, the morning spirit is sharp, the afternoon spirit is inert, and the evening spirit is weak. Therefore, those who are able to use an army well avoid its fierceness and attack its inertia. This is the one who calms down. Waiting for chaos with calmness, waiting for yakuza with calmness. This is the one who heals the heart. Waiting for the distance with nearness, waiting for labor with sadness, and waiting for food with boredom. This is the one who controls power. Without raising the flag of justice, without attacking the proud Chen. This will cure the problem.

Therefore, the law of using troops is: never go to a high mountain, never turn away from a hill, never follow a man who goes north, never attack a strong soldier, never be preyed on by a soldier, never follow a man returning home, always fear a besieger, never pursue a thief. It's legal to use soldiers for this.

Chapter 8: Nine Hens

According to Sun Tzu, the law of using soldiers is that a general should take his life as his ruler, unite his army and listen to the crowd, do not lie down in the thicket, mingle with each other in the thicket, do not stay in the desert, plot in the encircled area, and fight in the dead area. There are some things that are not dependent on the coating. There are places where the military cannot shoot. There are parts of the castle that cannot be attacked. There are places on earth where there is no conflict. There are some things you cannot accept.

Therefore, a general, a person who understands the benefits of nine changes, knows that he can use soldiers. General, if you don't know the advantages of nine changes, even if you know the terrain, you won't get any advantage of the terrain. If you do not know the techniques of the Nine Changes to govern your troops, even if you know the Five Benefits, you will not be of any use to others.

For this reason, the thoughts of a wise person are always mixed up with interests. You should serve and believe while focusing on profit. It is full of harm and should be resolved. For this reason, those who subjugate the lords do harm, those who serve the lords do karma, and those who overwhelm the lords do profit.

Therefore, the law of using troops is not to wait for them to come, but to wait for them. I have no choice but to attack, and I also have to accept that there are places I cannot attack.

Therefore, there are five dangers for the general. The desperate should be killed, the desperate should be taken prisoner, the swift should be despised, the honest should be humiliated, and the patriotic should be troubled. All of these five things are the general's fault, and it is a disaster for him to use his soldiers. To overthrow an army and kill a general, there are always five dangers. I have to guess.

Chapter 9: March

Sun Tzu said: When fighting an army or fighting an enemy, go over a mountain or rely on a valley; look at life and fight on a high ground, and do not climb to a height to fight. The army will put this on the mountain.

If the water is cut off, the fish will always move away from the water, and if the water is cut off, it is advantageous to shoot them after they are halfway done, rather than welcoming them into the water. Those who desire to fight should not go to the water to greet guests. Look at life and live high, and do not face the flow of water. The army will put this on the water.
If you cut off Kusezawa, just leave and don't stay. If you bring an army into the valley, be sure to rely on the waterweed and keep the trees behind you. This is the military that will punish Housawa.

Place yourself on the plains, place the heights on your right, and face death and leave life behind. This is the army that will punish it on land. The advantage of these four armies was that they were able to defeat the Four Emperors of the Yellow Emperor.

Generally speaking, the military loves the high and despises the low, valuing the positive and despising the negative. Nourishing life and killing fruit, and there is no harm in the army. This is called a sure win. When sheltering from hills, be sure to place yourself in the sun with your back to the right. This benefits the soldiers and helps the land. If it rains and there is water, those who wish to wade should wait until it settles.

If there is an abyss, a ceiling, a heavenly dungeon, a heavenly heaven, a heavenly cave, or a heavenly gap on the earth, be sure to leave it and do not approach it. I will keep away from it, and my enemies will draw near to it; I will meet it, and my enemies will turn away from it.

If you encounter any obstacles, ditches, reeds, mountains, or shadows on your military march, be sure to respectfully cover them. This is the place for rape.

The only way to be quiet when you're close to the enemy is to take advantage of the danger. If you fight from a distance, you want others to advance. The easier it is to be where you are, the better it is. Shuju's movements will come as they come. It is doubtful that there are many disorders in all plants. Birds wake up prone. The beast's skirmishing is a reversal. The dust is high and sharp when a car comes. What is low and broad is where the wrongdoers come. When the law is scattered, it is as if the woodcutter is collecting it. Going back and forth with fewer people is like running an army.

If you humble yourself and prepare, you will proceed. Resigning and moving forward is retreating. As soon as the light car comes out and I'm next to it, it's obvious. Begging for peace without a promise is scheming. They rushed to collect the chariots as soon as they expected. Half-progress, half-retreat is an invitation.

If you stand with a cane, you will starve. The first thing you drink after drawing water is as soon as you are thirsty. If you don't move forward based on profit, you'll have to work hard. Birds gather in vain. I'm afraid to call you at night. The struggle of the army rests on the shoulders of the general. The movement of the flag is chaotic. The official is angry because he is tired. Eating horses to millet and eating meat means there is no food for the army. If you don't work hard and return to that house, you'll be in trouble. As a slanderous person, if you gradually lose people, you will lose people. Often to win is to suffer. It is often difficult to punish. It would be laziness to expose people first and then fear them. If you come and apologize, you are asking for rest. If your soldiers meet each other in anger, but after a long time they do not meet, and they do not meet again, be sure to be respectful and consider this.

A soldier can't help but benefit from more. Rather than marching forward, if you can use your strength to attack the enemy, just take people. However, those who carelessly take advantage of their enemies will always be attacked by others. I'm sorry, but I still have no choice but to punish him, which means he won't obey. If you don't use it, it becomes difficult to use. If he is already a parent and is not punished, in other words, he cannot be used. Therefore, to give orders, we use letters, and to obey them, we use military force. This is called a must-have. If the ordinance is carried out from the beginning and teaches the people, that is, they will become civil servants. If you teach the people without following the law, that is, they will not wear civilian clothes. Those who act from the basics will be able to get along with the people.

Chapter 10: Terrain

According to Sun Tzu, in the terrain, there are those that are common, those that are strong, those that support, those that are narrow, those that are steep, and those that are far away.
It is said that he should come with me, that I should go with him. In the simple form, if you first stay in Gaoyang and fight by taking advantage of the path of sustenance, that is to say, there is profit. What you can take with you and what you cannot take back is called 挂. In the Naru form, if you are not prepared for your enemy, you will not be able to come out and win; if you are not prepared for your enemy, you will not be able to come out and win. It will be difficult to get back, which will be a disadvantage. If I appear at a disadvantage and he also appears at a disadvantage, it is called support. Even though the form of support is my enemy, even if it is for my benefit, I will not leave it. It would be advantageous to draw back, leave this, and shoot the enemy with it halfway out. If I were to stay in this dark form, I would definitely reveal it and wait for the enemy. If the enemy is here first and disappears, then do not follow him; if he does not disappear, then follow him. In a dangerous situation, if I were to stay here, I would definitely stay in Gaoyang and wait for the enemy. If the enemy is here first, then leave and do not follow him. In a form that is far away, it is difficult to fight if the force is even, and if you fight, you will be at a disadvantage.

Roughly speaking, these six people are the roads of the earth. I can't help but wonder about the supreme responsibility of the general.

Therefore, some soldiers run, some slack, some fall, some break down, some are disorderly, and some are north. These six people are not the disasters of heaven and earth, but the faults of the generals. When the momentum is even, shooting ten with one is called a run. A person who is strong and weak is called slack. When someone is strong and weak, it is said to be weak. A great official is angry and does not submit, and when he encounters an enemy, he calmly fights on his own, and a general who does not know his abilities is said to be defeated. When a general is weak and not strict, and the doctrine is not clear, and the soldiers are not disciplined, it is called rebellion. A general who does not attack the enemy, serves the people with the small, attacks the strong with the weak, and has no choice among his soldiers is called the north. These six people are on the path to defeat. As the commander in chief, I can't help but notice.

The terrain helps the soldiers. It is the path of a superior general to gain victory by attacking the enemy, and to measure the danger and distance. Those who know this and use battle will surely win, and those who do not know this and use battle will definitely lose. Therefore, even if the Lord says not to fight, it is always okay to fight if you are sure to win on the battlefield. Even though the Lord always tells us to fight, it is not possible without fighting. Therefore, those who do not seek fame willingly, do not retreat and avoid sin, but simply preserve the people and serve the interests of the people are the treasures of the nation.

Looking at the child's death is like a baby, so you should go to the deep end with it. Seeing death is like Aiko, so you should die with her. If it is thick and cannot be used, if it is not loved and commanded, if it is disturbed and cannot be controlled, then it is like a feral child and cannot be used.

If you know when you should shoot, but you do not know when the enemy should shoot, you are only halfway to victory. If you know when the enemy should shoot, but you don't know when you shouldn't shoot, that's half the battle. Knowing when to shoot at the enemy, knowing when to shoot with one's strength, but not knowing when to fight based on the terrain is only half the battle. Therefore, those who know their soldiers will move without hesitation, and will not be overwhelmed. Therefore, he says, if you get to know him and know yourself, Katsuno won't be much of a problem. If you know the heavens and the earth, Katsuno will not be in trouble.

Chapter 11: Kuchihen
According to Sun Tzu, there are ways to use soldiers: scattered areas, light areas, contested areas, crossing areas, backing areas, heavy areas, sheltered areas, enclosed areas, and dead areas. The lords themselves scattered the land to fight. He enters the land of men and makes what is not deep into light land. What we can do is profitable, and what he can do is also profitable. I will take what is to come with me as a point of contact. The land belongs to the three lords, and when it comes to the end, it will be the one that will be able to win the people of the world. He goes deeper into the land of people, and makes things that often have castles behind him into important areas. Forests, steep slopes, swamps, and anything that takes a path that is difficult to navigate is considered a hunting ground. There will be limited places to enter, so those who will return will be bypassed, and those who should attack our people will be surrounded. If you fight fast, you will survive, and if you don't fight fast, you will die. For this reason, do not fight in the scattered areas. Don't stop on light ground. In other words, do not attack in disputed territory. In other words, never be cut off at the crossroads. In other words, the lining is a combination of fellowship. In other words, it grazes heavy ground. In other words, go to the countryside. In other words, plot in the enclosure. In other words, fight in a dead place.

The so-called good soldiers of the ancient times often made enemies and did not reach out to those in front or behind them, did not cooperate with the masses, did not save the nobles, did not reconcile the superiors and the superiors, did not separate themselves and gather together, but joined forces and made a concerted attack. It moves according to the profit, and stops when it does not suit the profit.

I dare to ask this question, hoping that the enemy will arrive in full order. I don't have to wait for this. He says that if you first take away what they love, then they won't listen. A soldier's passion is to be prompt. Taking advantage of the fact that people can't reach, I attack the places that I don't warn against, using the path that I don't fear.

The deeper you go into the path of being a customer, the more you become exclusive and do not conquer the master. He is forced to feed the three armies by being kidnapped by Raono, and instead of feeding and working hard, he must gather his energy, gather strength, transport troops, plan and measure. If you throw this with nowhere to go, you will die and you will not go north. There's no point in dying. Do your best.

A soldier, if he falls into despair, he will not be afraid. If you have nowhere to go, that is to say, be firm, if you go too deep, that is, to restrict, and if you have no choice, that is, to fight. For this reason, we command without training, we receive without asking, we know without making promises, and we believe without command. There is no place for this, even to the point of death, forbidding suspicion. My lord, if you don't have money to spare, don't waste money. If you don't have much time left to live, you don't have to worry about your longevity. The order is issued: Those who sit as samurai have their necks in a dark place, and those who lie down have their necks crossed. If you throw this to nowhere, you will have great courage.

Therefore, a person who uses his troops well is like being proactive. Being proactive is a constant snake. If you shoot at the neck, you will reach the tail; if you shoot at the tail, you will reach the neck; and if you shoot at the inside, you will reach the tail. I dare to ask, should soldiers behave as if they were proactive? He says it's OK. Although the Wu and the Etes were at odds with each other, when they shared the same boat and met the wind, they were like hands on each other's side. For this reason, even though the horses were buried, it was still not enough. The path of government is to unite courage and unite as one. Obtaining strength and flexibility is the law of the land. Therefore, those who use soldiers well are like using one person when they join hands. I have no choice but to avoid it.
As a general in the army, you are quiet and secretive, you are honest and disciplined, you often make fools of the eyes of the soldiers, and you are afraid that they will not know what you are doing. Easier things, change their plans, make people not understand, make their lives easier, bypass their paths, make people not think about things. If you manage to do this, it's like climbing high and leaving the ladder. It's like going deep into the land of the feudal lords with a commanding officer, and when the opportunity arises, you light a boat, break a pot, and drive a flock. I am driven to and fro, and I am driven to come, but I do not know where I am going. Hear the people of the three armies, and do not throw them into danger. This is what is called a commander in the army. You can't help but understand the Nine Earths Incident, the advantage of bending and stretching, and the logic of human kindness.

Generally speaking, the deeper the path of being a guest, the more dedicated you are, and the shallower the path, the less you will scatter. Those who leave their country and cross borders to become teachers are in a state of peril. The one that reaches the fourth level is the lining. The deeper you go, the more important you are. If it is shallow to enter, it is light ground. What has a stronghold behind it and a narrow space in front of it is an enclosure. Those who have nowhere to go are dead. For this reason, we are scattered throughout the world in order to unite in this aim. This is exactly what I want to do with light soil. When you are in the middle of a dispute, you will fall behind. We are here at Koji, and we pray for its protection. It is attached to the lining to make sure the knot is firm. I am living in a heavy land and am trying to inherit this very food. I'm going to move on to the lacquering in the forest. They will enter the enclosure and try to close the gate. In the place of death, there is nothing but life to be shown. Therefore, the sentiment of a soldier is that if he is surrounded, he will fight, if he has no choice, he will fight, and if he has to, he will obey.

For this reason, those who do not know the plots of the lords cannot mingle with them. Those who do not know the shape of mountains, forests, mountains, and rivers cannot go to war. Those who do not use the guidance will never gain the advantage of the earth. Those who are 45 years old and don't know what it means to be one are not worthy of being the king's soldiers. If the overlord's soldiers were to defeat a great nation, that is to say, they would not be able to attract the attention of their people. If you join the enemy, that is, you will not be able to join them. For this reason, we do not fight for the fellowship of the world, we do not cultivate the power of the world, we believe in ourselves, we are powerful, and we join the enemy. Therefore, in order to overcome that castle, that country should be destroyed. It is like using one person to reward lawlessness, issue a lawless order, and violate the three armies. Do not commit this with words, and do not declare it with words. Do this with profit, and do not preach with harm. Throw it into a dead land and it will live after that, and throw it into a dead land and live after that. They cause harm and then often win or lose.

Therefore, the purpose of forming an army is to listen carefully to the enemy's intentions, to defeat the enemy at once, and to kill the general within a thousand miles. This is called a person who does well and skillfully. For this reason, on the day of a political election, he folds the talisman, does not allow the messenger to pass through, and places it on top of the shrine, thereby making a point of mourning. When an enemy is involved, he will always enter into the enemy's arms, put his beloved first, have a faint idea of ​​what he is going to do, follow the enemy's lead, and then decide the war.

For this reason, at first she opened the door to the enemy like a virgin, and later, like a rabbit, she could not even reject him.

Chapter 12: Fire Attack

According to Sun Tzu, there are five types of fire attacks. 1 says, set people on fire, 2 says set fire to the product, 3 says set fire to the warehouse, 4 says set fire to the warehouse, 5 says set fire to the squad. There is always a reason for making fire. Fireworks are always provided. There is a time to start a fire, a day to start a fire, and time is the drying of the heavens. The sun is in the winnows, walls, wings, and shadows of the moon. This is the day when the wind blows up in these four inns.
Fire attacks always respond to this due to the Five Fire Incident. If fire is emitted within, it will quickly respond to the outside. If a fire ignites and the soldiers are silent, don't wait and attack. Mastering its firepower, obeying it as it should, and stopping when it shouldn't. Fire should be radiated outward; do not wait within; radiate it in time. Fire, if you send it to the upper wind, it will not attack the lower wind. The daytime wind is long gone, and the nighttime wind has ceased. The military will always know about the five fires and protect them with their numbers.

Therefore, the one who attacks with fire is clear. He who attacks with water is strong. Water should be cut off, and should not be taken away.

It would be a disaster if we won the battle and did not practice the merits of it. It is said that the order was given to him. Therefore, it is said that a Meishu considers this, and a good general practices this. If it doesn't help, don't move; if it doesn't help, don't use it; if you're in danger, don't fight. A master should not raise his master in anger, and a general should not fight in fear. It moves according to the profit, and stops when it does not suit the profit. Anger should be rejoicing, and anger should be rejoicing, but a country should never exist again, and the dead should never live again. Therefore, Ming lords refrain from doing this, and good generals guard against this. This is the path to peace for the country and fulfillment of the military.

Chapter 13: Yoma-hen

Sun Tzu said, It takes about 100,000 to establish a master, 1,000 miles to go to war, the expenses of peasants, the services of court nobles, 700,000 families who have no choice but to control matters, commotions at home and abroad, neglecting the roads, fighting for victory in one day for several years.

However, those who love riches and riches and are ignorant of the feelings of their enemies are uncharitable. He should not be a human commander. Not in the Lord's favor, not in the Lord's victory. Therefore, the reason why the wise generals of the Ming lord are able to win over others and become successful must be known first. The one who knows first should not be taken as a demon god. It should not be imitated, nor should it be experienced. He is always the one who knows the enemy's feelings.

Therefore, there are five ways to use time. There is Inma, there is Uchima, there is Anima, there is Death, and there is Living. This is called divine discipline, when all five periods occur without knowing the path. It's your treasure. Inma can be used depending on the local people. The term ``inner room'' can be used depending on the official in question. This can be used depending on the enemy. The dead room is the place where deceit is made known, and it is made known among the enemies. It's the opposite of living.

Therefore, when it comes to the three armies, nothing is closer than between, no prize is deeper than between, and things are closer than between. If it is not in the holy wisdom, there is no point in using time. There is no point in wasting your time unless it is due to humanity. If it's not slightly different, you won't get any results. I don't know if it's a little bit or not, but I have no choice but to use a pause. If the truth is not uttered and you hear it first, all those who say the truth will die.

Whenever an army wants to attack, a castle needs to be attacked, or someone wants to be killed, the first thing to do is to know the names and names of the general, left and right, audience members, monks, and monks, and make sure to find out this information.

I will certainly seek out those who come among my enemies to interfere with me, and I will help them by leaning on them, and I will guide them and protect them. Therefore, you should get and use anti-ma. This is how you know this. Therefore, it is necessary to obtain and use the town and the Uchima. This is how you know this. Therefore, before you die, deceive and tell your enemies. This is how you know this. Therefore, life should be treated like periods. The Lord will surely know about this five-minute thing. The only person who will know this is Danma. Therefore, there is no choice but to make the gap thicker.

Once upon a time, when the Shang dynasty rose, Izhe lived in the summer. When the Zhou Dynasty rose, Lu Fang was in the Shang Dynasty. Therefore, only a wise prince and wise general can do things with wisdom and wisdom, and he will definitely achieve great deeds. This is the cornerstone of the soldiers, and the three armies move together.