I. Laying Plans

1. Sun Tzu hà dettu : L'arti di a guerra hè d'impurtanza vitale à u Statu.

2. Hè una questione di vita è di morte, una strada sia per a salvezza sia per a ruina. Il s'agit donc d'un sujet d'enquête qui ne peut en aucun cas être négligé.

3. The art of war, then, is governed by five constant factors, to be taken into account in one's deliberations, when seeking to determine the conditions obtaining in the field.

4. Quessi sò: (1) A Legge Morale ; (2) Heaven; (3) Earth; (4) The Commander; (5) Metudu è disciplina.

5,6. The Moral Law causes the people to be in complete accord with their ruler, so that they will follow him regardless of their lives, undismayed by any danger.

7. U celu significa notte è ghjornu, fretu è calore, tempi è stagioni.

8. A Terra comprende distanze, grande è chjuca; danger and security; terra aperta è passaghji stretti; e chance di vita è di morte.

9. U Cumandante sta per e virtù di a saviezza, sinceramente, benevolenza, curagiu è rigore.

10. By method and discipline are to be understood the marshaling of the army in its proper subdivisions, the graduations of rank among the officers, the maintenance of roads by which supplies may reach the army, and the control of military expenditure.

11. Questi cinque capi deve esse familiar à ogni generale: quellu chì li cunnosce serà vittorioso; quellu chì ùn li cunnosce micca fallerà.

12. Therefore, in your deliberations, when seeking to determine the military conditions, let them be made the basis of a comparison, in this wise:--

13. (1) Qualessu di i dui sovrani hè impregnatu di a lege Morale ? (2) Qualessu di i dui generali hà più capacità ? (3) À quale sò i vantaghji derivati ​​da u Celu è a Terra ? (4) Da quale latu hè a disciplina più rigorosa? (5) Chì armata hè più forte ? (6) Da quale parte sò l'ufficiali è l'omi più furmati ? (7) In quale armata ci hè a più grande custanza in ricumpensa è punizioni ?

14. Per mezu di sti sette cunsiderazioni, possu prevede a vittoria o a scunfitta.

15. U generale chì ascolta u mo cunsigliu è agisce nantu à ellu, cunquisterà: chì tali un esse ritenutu in u cumandamentu ! U generale chì ùn ascolta micca u mo cunsigliu è ùn agisce nantu à ellu, soffrerà a scunfitta: - ch'ellu sia licenziatu!

16. Mentre dirigendu u prufittu di u mo cunsigliu, prufittà ancu di qualsiasi circustanze utili sopra è fora di e regule ordinali.

17. Sicondu e circustanze sò favurevuli, unu deve mudificà i so piani.

18. Tutta a guerra hè basatu annantu à l'ingannimentu.

19. Dunque, quandu pudemu attaccà, duvemu pare micca capace; quandu usendu e nostre forze, avemu da parè inattivu; quandu simu vicinu, avemu da fà crede à u nimicu chì simu luntanu; quandu luntanu, ci vole à fà crede ch'è no simu vicinu.

20. Mantene l'esche per invià u nemicu. Finge u disordine, è sfraccialu.

21. S'ellu hè sicuru in tutti i punti, esse preparatu per ellu. S'ellu hè in forza superiore, evadelu.

22. Se u vostru avversariu hè di u temperamentu colérico, cercate di irritallu. Fate finta di esse debbule, per pudè cresce arrogante.

23. S'ellu si piglia a so facilità, ùn li dà micca riposu. Se e so forze sò unite, si separanu.

24. Attaccallu induve ùn hè micca preparatu, apparisce induve ùn site micca aspittatu.

25. Sti dispusitivi militari, chì portanu à a vittoria, ùn deve esse divulgatu prima.

26. Avà u generale chì vince una battaglia face assai calculi in u so tempiu prima chì a battaglia hè cummattuta. U generale chì perde una battaglia ùn face chè pochi calculi prima. Cusì parechji calculi portanu à a vittoria, è pochi calculi à scunfitta: quantu più nisun calculu à tutti! Hè per l'attenzione à questu puntu chì possu prevede quale hè prubabile di vince o perde.

II. Waging War

1. Sun Tzu said: In the operations of war, where there are in the field a thousand swift chariots, as many heavy chariots, and a hundred thousand mail-clad soldiers, with provisions enough to carry them a thousand li, the expenditure at home and at the front, including entertainment of guests, small items such as glue and paint, and sums spent on chariots and armor, will reach the total of a thousand ounces of silver per day. Tale hè u costu di crià un esercitu di 100 000 omi.

2. Quandu vi impegnate in a lotta attuale, se a vittoria hè longa à vene, allora l'armi di l'omi cresceranu è u so ardore sarà damped. Sè assediate una cità, sguassate e vostre forze.

3. In novu, se a campagna hè prolungata, i risorsi di u Statu ùn saranu micca uguali à a tensione.
4. Now, when your weapons are dulled, your ardor damped, your strength exhausted and your treasure spent, other chieftains will spring up to take advantage of your extremity. Then no man, however wise, will be able to avert the consequences that must ensue.

5. Thus, though we have heard of stupid haste in war, cleverness has never been seen associated with long delays.

6. There is no instance of a country having benefited from prolonged warfare.

7. It is only one who is thoroughly acquainted with the evils of war that can thoroughly understand the profitable way of carrying it on.

8. The skillful soldier does not raise a second levy, neither are his supply-wagons loaded more than twice.

9. Bring war material with you from home, but forage on the enemy. Thus the army will have food enough for its needs.

10. Poverty of the State exchequer causes an army to be maintained by contributions from a distance. Contributing to maintain an army at a distance causes the people to be impoverished.

11. On the other hand, the proximity of an army causes prices to go up; and high prices cause the people's substance to be drained away.

12. When their substance is drained away, the peasantry will be afflicted by heavy exactions.

13,14. With this loss of substance and exhaustion of strength, the homes of the people will be stripped bare, and three-tenths of their income will be dissipated; while government expenses for broken chariots, worn-out horses, breast-plates and helmets, bows and arrows, spears and shields, protective mantles, draught-oxen and heavy wagons, will amount to four-tenths of its total revenue.

15. Hence a wise general makes a point of foraging on the enemy. One cartload of the enemy's provisions is equivalent to twenty of one's own, and likewise a single picul of his provender is equivalent to twenty from one's own store.

16. Now in order to kill the enemy, our men must be roused to anger; that there may be advantage from defeating the enemy, they must have their rewards.

17. Therefore in chariot fighting, when ten or more chariots have been taken, those should be rewarded who took the first. Our own flags should be substituted for those of the enemy, and the chariots mingled and used in conjunction with ours. The captured soldiers should be kindly treated and kept.

18. This is called, using the conquered foe to augment one's own strength.

19. In war, then, let your great object be victory, not lengthy campaigns.

20. Thus it may be known that the leader of armies is the arbiter of the people's fate, the man on whom it depends whether the nation shall be in peace or in peril.

III. Attack by Stratagem

1. Sun Tzu said: In the practical art of war, the best thing of all is to take the enemy's country whole and intact; to shatter and destroy it is not so good. So, too, it is better to recapture an army entire than to destroy it, to capture a regiment, a detachment or a company entire than to destroy them.

2. Hence to fight and conquer in all your battles is not supreme excellence; supreme excellence consists in breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.

3. Thus the highest form of generalship is to balk the enemy's plans; the next best is to prevent the junction of the enemy's forces; the next in order is to attack the enemy's army in the field; and the worst policy of all is to besiege walled cities.

4. The rule is, not to besiege walled cities if it can possibly be avoided. The preparation of mantlets, movable shelters, and various implements of war, will take up three whole months; and the piling up of mounds over against the walls will take three months more.

5. The general, unable to control his irritation, will launch his men to the assault like swarming ants, with the result that one-third of his men are slain, while the town still remains untaken. Such are the disastrous effects of a siege.

6. Therefore the skillful leader subdues the enemy's troops without any fighting; he captures their cities without laying siege to them; he overthrows their kingdom without lengthy operations in the field.

7. With his forces intact he will dispute the mastery of the Empire, and thus, without losing a man, his triumph will be complete. This is the method of attacking by stratagem.

8. It is the rule in war, if our forces are ten to the enemy's one, to surround him; if five to one, to attack him; if twice as numerous, to divide our army into two.
9. If equally matched, we can offer battle; if slightly inferior in numbers, we can avoid the enemy; if quite unequal in every way, we can flee from him.

10. Hence, though an obstinate fight may be made by a small force, in the end it must be captured by the larger force.

11. Now the general is the bulwark of the State; if the bulwark is complete at all points; the State will be strong; if the bulwark is defective, the State will be weak.

12. There are three ways in which a ruler can bring misfortune upon his army:--

13. (1) By commanding the army to advance or to retreat, being ignorant of the fact that it cannot obey. This is called hobbling the army.

14. (2) By attempting to govern an army in the same way as he administers a kingdom, being ignorant of the conditions which obtain in an army. This causes restlessness in the soldier's minds.

15. (3) By employing the officers of his army without discrimination, through ignorance of the military principle of adaptation to circumstances. This shakes the confidence of the soldiers.

16. But when the army is restless and distrustful, trouble is sure to come from the other feudal princes. This is simply bringing anarchy into the army, and flinging victory away.

17. Thus we may know that there are five essentials for victory: (1) He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight. (2) He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces. (3) He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks. (4) He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared. (5) He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.

18. Hence the saying: If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will succumb in every battle.

IV. Tactical Dispositions

1. Sun Tzu said: The good fighters of old first put themselves beyond the possibility of defeat, and then waited for an opportunity of defeating the enemy.

2. To secure ourselves against defeat lies in our own hands, but the opportunity of defeating the enemy is provided by the enemy himself.

3. Thus the good fighter is able to secure himself against defeat, but cannot make certain of defeating the enemy.

4. Hence the saying: One may know how to conquer without being able to do it.

5. Security against defeat implies defensive tactics; ability to defeat the enemy means taking the offensive.

6. Standing on the defensive indicates insufficient strength; attacking, a superabundance of strength.

7. The general who is skilled in defense hides in the most secret recesses of the earth; he who is skilled in attack flashes forth from the topmost heights of heaven. Thus on the one hand we have ability to protect ourselves; on the other, a victory that is complete.

8. To see victory only when it is within the ken of the common herd is not the acme of excellence.

9. Neither is it the acme of excellence if you fight and conquer and the whole Empire says, "Well done!"

10. To lift an autumn hair is no sign of great strength; to see the sun and moon is no sign of sharp sight; to hear the noise of thunder is no sign of a quick ear.

11. What the ancients called a clever fighter is one who not only wins, but excels in winning with ease.

12. Hence his victories bring him neither reputation for wisdom nor credit for courage.

13. He wins his battles by making no mistakes. Making no mistakes is what establishes the certainty of victory, for it means conquering an enemy that is already defeated.

14. Hence the skillful fighter puts himself into a position which makes defeat impossible, and does not miss the moment for defeating the enemy.

15. Thus it is that in war the victorious strategist only seeks battle after the victory has been won, whereas he who is destined to defeat first fights and afterwards looks for victory.

16. The consummate leader cultivates the moral law, and strictly adheres to method and discipline; thus it is in his power to control success.

17. In respect of military method, we have, firstly, Measurement; secondly, Estimation of quantity; thirdly, Calculation; fourthly, Balancing of chances; fifthly, Victory.
Error 500 (Server Error)!!1500.That’s an error.There was an error. Please try again later.That’s all we know.
Error 500 (Server Error)!!1500.That’s an error.There was an error. Please try again later.That’s all we know.
Error 500 (Server Error)!!1500.That’s an error.There was an error. Please try again later.That’s all we know.
Error 500 (Server Error)!!1500.That’s an error.There was an error. Please try again later.That’s all we know.
Error 500 (Server Error)!!1500.That’s an error.There was an error. Please try again later.That’s all we know.
33. If there is disturbance in the camp, the general's authority is weak. If the banners and flags are shifted about, sedition is afoot. If the officers are angry, it means that the men are weary.

34. Quandu un esercitu alimenta i so cavalli cù u granu è uccide u so vacu per manghjà, è quandu l'omi ùn appiccicà e so coccia nantu à i fuchi di campa, dimustrendu ch'elli ùn vulteranu micca in e so tende, pudete sapè chì sò decisu à luttà finu à a morte.

35. The sight of men whispering together in small knots or speaking in subdued tones points to disaffection amongst the rank and file.

36. Too frequent rewards signify that the enemy is at the end of his resources; too many punishments betray a condition of dire distress.

37. To begin by bluster, but afterwards to take fright at the enemy's numbers, shows a supreme lack of intelligence.

38. When envoys are sent with compliments in their mouths, it is a sign that the enemy wishes for a truce.

39. Sì e truppe di l'inimitu marchjanu in furia è fermanu di fronte à a nostra per un bellu pezzu, senza unisce à a battaglia o si sguassate di novu, a situazione hè quella chì esige una grande vigilanza è circunspeczione.

40. If our troops are no more in number than the enemy, that is amply sufficient; it only means that no direct attack can be made. What we can do is simply to concentrate all our available strength, keep a close watch on the enemy, and obtain reinforcements.

41. He who exercises no forethought but makes light of his opponents is sure to be captured by them.

42. If soldiers are punished before they have grown attached to you, they will not prove submissive; and, unless submissive, then will be practically useless. If, when the soldiers have become attached to you, punishments are not enforced, they will still be unless.

43. Therefore soldiers must be treated in the first instance with humanity, but kept under control by means of iron discipline. This is a certain road to victory.

44. If in training soldiers commands are habitually enforced, the army will be well-disciplined; if not, its discipline will be bad.

45. If a general shows confidence in his men but always insists on his orders being obeyed, the gain will be mutual.

X. Terrain

1. Sun Tzu said: We may distinguish six kinds of terrain, to wit: (1) Accessible ground; (2) entangling ground; (3) temporizing ground; (4) narrow passes; (5) precipitous heights; (6) positions at a great distance from the enemy.

2. Ground which can be freely traversed by both sides is called accessible.

3. With regard to ground of this nature, be before the enemy in occupying the raised and sunny spots, and carefully guard your line of supplies. Then you will be able to fight with advantage.

4. Ground which can be abandoned but is hard to re-occupy is called entangling.

5. From a position of this sort, if the enemy is unprepared, you may sally forth and defeat him. But if the enemy is prepared for your coming, and you fail to defeat him, then, return being impossible, disaster will ensue.

6. When the position is such that neither side will gain by making the first move, it is called temporizing ground.

7. In una pusizioni di stu tipu, ancu s'è l'inimitu duveria offre un'esca attrattiva, serà cunsigliu di ùn sbulicà micca, ma piuttostu di retrocede, cusì invitendu l'inimicu à u so turnu; then, when part of his army has come out, we may deliver our attack with advantage.

8. With regard to narrow passes, if you can occupy them first, let them be strongly garrisoned and await the advent of the enemy.

9. Should the army forestall you in occupying a pass, do not go after him if the pass is fully garrisoned, but only if it is weakly garrisoned.

10. In quantu à l'altitudine precipitosa, sè vo site in anticipu cù u vostru avversariu, duvete occupà i lochi elevati è assolellati, è quì aspittà ch'ellu cullà.

11. If the enemy has occupied them before you, do not follow him, but retreat and try to entice him away.

12. Sè site situatu à una grande distanza da u nemicu, è a forza di i dui armati hè uguali, ùn hè micca faciule per pruvucà una battaglia, è a lotta serà à u vostru disadvantage.

13. These six are the principles connected with Earth. The general who has attained a responsible post must be careful to study them.
Error 500 (Server Error)!!1500.That’s an error.There was an error. Please try again later.That’s all we know.
7. When an army has penetrated into the heart of a hostile country, leaving a number of fortified cities in its rear, it is serious ground.

8. Mountain forests, rugged steeps, marshes and fens--all country that is hard to traverse: this is difficult ground.

9. A terra chì hè ghjunta à traversu strette gole, è da quale ùn pudemu micca ritirate solu per chjassi tortuosi, cusì chì un picculu numeru di l'inimitu basterebbe per sfracicà un grande corpu di i nostri omi: questu hè orlatu in terra.

10. Ground on which we can only be saved from destruction by fighting without delay, is desperate ground.

11. On dispersive ground, therefore, fight not. On facile ground, halt not. On contentious ground, attack not.

12. On open ground, do not try to block the enemy's way. On the ground of intersecting highways, join hands with your allies.

13. On serious ground, gather in plunder. In difficult ground, keep steadily on the march.

14. On hemmed-in ground, resort to stratagem. On desperate ground, fight.

15. Those who were called skillful leaders of old knew how to drive a wedge between the enemy's front and rear; to prevent co-operation between his large and small divisions; to hinder the good troops from rescuing the bad, the officers from rallying their men.

16. When the enemy's men were united, they managed to keep them in disorder.

17. When it was to their advantage, they made a forward move; when otherwise, they stopped still.

18. S'ellu hè dumandatu cumu affruntà un grande òspite di l'inimicu in ordine urdinatu è à u puntu di marchjà à l'attaccu, avissi da dì: "Accuminciate per piglià qualcosa chì u vostru avversariu teni caru; allora ellu serà amenable à a vostra vuluntà".

19. Rapidity is the essence of war: take advantage of the enemy's unreadiness, make your way by unexpected routes, and attack unguarded spots.

20. I seguenti sò i principii per esse osservati da una forza invasora: Più più penetrate in un paese, più grande serà a sulidarità di e vostre truppe, è cusì i difensori ùn prevalanu micca contru à voi.

21. Make forays in fertile country in order to supply your army with food.

22. Carefully study the well-being of your men, and do not overtax them. Concentrate your energy and hoard your strength. Keep your army continually on the move, and devise unfathomable plans.

23. Throw your soldiers into positions whence there is no escape, and they will prefer death to flight. If they will face death, there is nothing they may not achieve. Officers and men alike will put forth their uttermost strength.

24. Soldiers when in desperate straits lose the sense of fear. If there is no place of refuge, they will stand firm. If they are in hostile country, they will show a stubborn front. If there is no help for it, they will fight hard.

25. Thus, without waiting to be marshaled, the soldiers will be constantly on the qui vive; without waiting to be asked, they will do your will; without restrictions, they will be faithful; without giving orders, they can be trusted.

26. Prohibit the taking of omens, and do away with superstitious doubts. Then, until death itself comes, no calamity need be feared.

27. If our soldiers are not overburdened with money, it is not because they have a distaste for riches; if their lives are not unduly long, it is not because they are disinclined to longevity.

28. U ghjornu ch'elli sò urdinati à a battaglia, i vostri suldati ponu pienghje, quelli chì si stanu à pusà si bedevanu i so vestiti, è quelli chì si sdraiavanu lasciendu e lacrime scorri per e so guance. But let them once be brought to bay, and they will display the courage of a Chu or a Kuei.

29. The skillful tactician may be likened to the shuai-jan. Now the shuai-jan is a snake that is found in the ChUng mountains. Strike at its head, and you will be attacked by its tail; strike at its tail, and you will be attacked by its head; strike at its middle, and you will be attacked by head and tail both.

30. Asked if an army can be made to imitate the shuai-jan, I should answer, Yes. For the men of Wu and the men of Yueh are enemies; eppuru s'elli traversanu un fiumu in a stessa barca è sò chjappi da una tempesta, venenu à l'aiutu di l'altri cum'è a manu manca aiuta a diritta.

31. Hence it is not enough to put one's trust in the tethering of horses, and the burying of chariot wheels in the ground

32. The principle on which to manage an army is to set up one standard of courage which all must reach.
33. How to make the best of both strong and weak--that is a question involving the proper use of ground.

34. Thus the skillful general conducts his army just as though he were leading a single man, willy-nilly, by the hand.

35. It is the business of a general to be quiet and thus ensure secrecy; ghjustu è ghjustu, è cusì mantene l'ordine.

36. He must be able to mystify his officers and men by false reports and appearances, and thus keep them in total ignorance.

37. By altering his arrangements and changing his plans, he keeps the enemy without definite knowledge. By shifting his camp and taking circuitous routes, he prevents the enemy from anticipating his purpose.

38. At the critical moment, the leader of an army acts like one who has climbed up a height and then kicks away the ladder behind him. He carries his men deep into hostile territory before he shows his hand.

39. He burns his boats and breaks his cooking-pots; like a shepherd driving a flock of sheep, he drives his men this way and that, and nothing knows whither he is going.

40. To muster his host and bring it into danger:--this may be termed the business of the general.

41. The different measures suited to the nine varieties of ground; the expediency of aggressive or defensive tactics; and the fundamental laws of human nature: these are things that must most certainly be studied.

42. When invading hostile territory, the general principle is, that penetrating deeply brings cohesion; penetrante ma una strada corta significa dispersione.

43. When you leave your own country behind, and take your army across neighborhood territory, you find yourself on critical ground. When there are means of communication on all four sides, the ground is one of intersecting highways.

44. When you penetrate deeply into a country, it is serious ground. When you penetrate but a little way, it is facile ground.

45. When you have the enemy's strongholds on your rear, and narrow passes in front, it is hemmed-in ground. When there is no place of refuge at all, it is desperate ground.

46. Therefore, on dispersive ground, I would inspire my men with unity of purpose. On facile ground, I would see that there is close connection between all parts of my army.

47. On contentious ground, I would hurry up my rear.

48. On open ground, I would keep a vigilant eye on my defenses. On ground of intersecting highways, I would consolidate my alliances.

49. On serious ground, I would try to ensure a continuous stream of supplies. On difficult ground, I would keep pushing on along the road.

50. On hemmed-in ground, I would block any way of retreat. On desperate ground, I would proclaim to my soldiers the hopelessness of saving their lives.

51. For it is the soldier's disposition to offer an obstinate resistance when surrounded, to fight hard when he cannot help himself, and to obey promptly when he has fallen into danger.

52. We cannot enter into alliance with neighboring princes until we are acquainted with their designs. We are not fit to lead an army on the march unless we are familiar with the face of the country--its mountains and forests, its pitfalls and precipices, its marshes and swamps. We shall be unable to turn natural advantages to account unless we make use of local guides.

53. To be ignored of any one of the following four or five principles does not befit a warlike prince.

54. When a warlike prince attacks a powerful state, his generalship shows itself in preventing the concentration of the enemy's forces. He overawes his opponents, and their allies are prevented from joining against him.

55. Hence he does not strive to ally himself with all and sundry, nor does he foster the power of other states. He carries out his own secret designs, keeping his antagonists in awe. Thus he is able to capture their cities and overthrow their kingdoms.

56. Bestow rewards without regard to rule, issue orders without regard to previous arrangements; and you will be able to handle a whole army as though you had to do with but a single man.

57. Affrontate i vostri suldati cù l'attu stessu; mai li lasciate cunnosce u vostru disignu. When the outlook is bright, bring it before their eyes; but tell them nothing when the situation is gloomy.

58. Place your army in deadly peril, and it will survive; plunge it into desperate straits, and it will come off in safety.

59. For it is precisely when a force has fallen into harm's way that is capable of striking a blow for victory.
60. Success in warfare is gained by carefully accommodating ourselves to the enemy's purpose.

61. By persistently hanging on the enemy's flank, we shall succeed in the long run in killing the commander-in-chief.

62. This is called ability to accomplish a thing by sheer cunning.

63. On the day that you take up your command, block the frontier passes, destroy the official tallies, and stop the passage of all emissaries.

64. Be stern in the council-chamber, so that you may control the situation.

65. If the enemy leaves a door open, you must rush in.

66. Forestall your opponent by seizing what he holds dear, and subtly contrive to time his arrival on the ground.

67. Walk in the path defined by rule, and accommodate yourself to the enemy until you can fight a decisive battle.

68. At first, then, exhibit the coyness of a maiden, until the enemy gives you an opening; afterwards emulate the rapidity of a running hare, and it will be too late for the enemy to oppose you.

XII. L'attaccu di u focu

1. Sun Tzu said: There are five ways of attacking with fire. The first is to burn soldiers in their camp; the second is to burn stores; the third is to burn baggage trains; the fourth is to burn arsenals and magazines; the fifth is to hurl dropping fire amongst the enemy.

2. In order to carry out an attack, we must have means available. The material for raising fire should always be kept in readiness.

3. There is a proper season for making attacks with fire, and special days for starting a conflagration.

4. The proper season is when the weather is very dry; the special days are those when the moon is in the constellations of the Sieve, the Wall, the Wing or the Cross-bar; for these four are all days of rising wind.

5. In attacking with fire, one should be prepared to meet five possible developments:

6. (1) When fire breaks out inside to enemy's camp, respond at once with an attack from without.

7. (2) If there is an outbreak of fire, but the enemy's soldiers remain quiet, bide your time and do not attack.

8. (3) When the force of the flames has reached its height, follow it up with an attack, if that is practicable; if not, stay where you are.

9. (4) S'ellu hè pussibule di fà un assaltu cù u focu da fora, ùn aspittà micca ch'ellu sguassate in l'internu, ma trasmette u vostru attaccu in un momentu favurevule.

10. (5) When you start a fire, be to windward of it. Do not attack from the leeward.

11. A wind that rises in the daytime lasts long, but a night breeze soon falls.

12. In ogni esercitu, i cinque sviluppi cunnessi cù u focu deve esse cunnisciutu, i muvimenti di l'astri calculati, è un sguardu guardatu per i ghjorni propiu.

13. Hence those who use fire as an aid to the attack show intelligence; those who use water as an aid to the attack gain an accession of strength.

14. By means of water, an enemy may be intercepted, but not robbed of all his belongings.

15. Unhappy is the fate of one who tries to win his battles and succeed in his attacks without cultivating the spirit of enterprise; for the result is waste of time and general stagnation.

16. Hence the saying: The enlightened ruler lays his plans well ahead; the good general cultivates his resources.

17. Move not unless you see an advantage; use not your troops unless there is something to be gained; fight not unless the position is critical.

18. No ruler should put troops into the field merely to gratify his own spleen; no general should fight a battle simply out of pique.

19. If it is to your advantage, make a forward move; if not, stay where you are.

20. Anger may in time change to gladness; vexation may be succeeded by content.

21. But a kingdom that has once been destroyed can never come again into being; nor can the dead ever be brought back to life.

22. Hence the enlightened ruler is heedful, and the good general full of caution. This is the way to keep a country at peace and an army intact.

XIII. L'usu di spie

1. Sun Tzu hà dettu: L'allevamentu di centu milla omi è marchjendu à grandi distanze implica pèrdite pesanti nantu à u populu è un drenu di e risorse di u Statu. The daily expenditure will amount to a thousand ounces of silver. There will be commotion at home and abroad, and men will drop down exhausted on the highways. As many as seven hundred thousand families will be impeded in their labor.
2. Hostile armies may face each other for years, striving for the victory which is decided in a single day. Hè cusì, per stà in ignuranza di a cundizione di l'inimitu solu perchè unu rancore l'erogazione di centu once d'argentu in onori è emolumenti, hè l'altezza di l'inhumanità.

3. One who acts thus is no leader of men, no present help to his sovereign, no master of victory.

4. Cusì, ciò chì permette à u suvranu sàviu è à u bonu generale per sbattà è cunquistà, è ottene e cose fora di a portata di l'omi ordinali, hè a prescienza.

5. Now this foreknowledge cannot be elicited from spirits; it cannot be obtained inductively from experience, nor by any deductive calculation.

6. Knowledge of the enemy's dispositions can only be obtained from other men.

7. Hence the use of spies, of whom there are five classes: (1) Local spies; (2) spie internu; (3) spie cunvertite; (4) spie cundannati; (5) spie sopravviventi.

8. When these five kinds of spy are all at work, none can discover the secret system. This is called "divine manipulation of the threads." Hè a facultà più preziosa di u sovranu.

9. Having local spies means employing the services of the inhabitants of a district.

10. Having inward spies, making use of officials of the enemy.

11. Having converted spies, getting hold of the enemy's spies and using them for our own purposes.

12. Avè cundannati spie, fendu certe cose apertamente per scopi di ingannimentu, è permette à i nostri spie di sapè di elli è di raportà à u nemicu.

13. Surviving spies, finally, are those who bring back news from the enemy's camp.

14. Hence it is that which none in the whole army are more intimate relations to be maintained than with spies. Nisunu deve esse premiatu più liberalmente. In no other business should greater secrecy be preserved.

15. Spies cannot be usefully employed without a certain intuitive sagacity.

16. They cannot be properly managed without benevolence and straightforwardness.

17. Without subtle ingenuity of mind, one cannot make certain of the truth of their reports.

18. Siate suttili ! esse sottili! è aduprà e vostre spie per ogni tipu d'affari.

19. Se una notizia secreta hè divulgata da una spia prima di u tempu hè maturu, deve esse messe à morte cù l'omu à quale u sicretu hè statu dettu.

20. Ch'ella sia l'ughjettu di sfraccià un esercitu, di assaltà una cità, o di assassinà un individuu, hè sempre necessariu di principià per scuperta i nomi di l'assistenti, l'aiutanti di u campu, i porti è i sentinelle di u generale in cumandamentu. Our spies must be commissioned to ascertain these.

21. The enemy's spies who have come to spy on us must be sought out, tempted with bribes, led away and comfortably housed. Thus they will become converted spies and available for our service.

22. It is through the information brought by the converted spy that we are able to acquire and employ local and inward spies.

23. It is owing to his information, again, that we can cause the doomed spy to carry false tidings to the enemy.

24. Lastly, it is by his information that the surviving spy can be used on appointed occasions.

25. The end and aim of spying in all its five varieties is knowledge of the enemy; and this knowledge can only be derived, in the first instance, from the converted spy. Hence it is essential that the converted spy be treated with the utmost liberality.

26. Of old, the rise of the Yin dynasty was due to I Chih who had served under the Hsia. Likewise, the rise of the Chou dynasty was due to Lu Ya who had served under the Yin.

27. Per quessa, hè solu u guvernatore illuminatu è u generale sàviu chì aduprà a più alta intelligenza di l'esercitu per scopi di spia è cusì ottene grandi risultati. Spies are a most important element in water, because on them depends an army's ability to move.


A FINE