Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the Earth's rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, where it plays the role of solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding that greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. Although it does not provide food energy or is an organic trace element, it is vital to all known life forms. Water is often called the "universal solvent" because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size. Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water and ice droplets, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Minor portions of water are found in groundwater (1.7%), glaciers and glaciers of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and air in the form of vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff and usually reaches the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major food source for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of both mineral and organic substances; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes, food preparation and washing. The water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other activities such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *ffixedw, ("water"; "wet"). It is also cognate to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English 'hydro-'), Russian vodá (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian uvj via an Indo-European root. History
On earth
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is the most studied chemical compound to date and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, or gas under normal dry conditions. states
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools over certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does so in liquid form. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. It reaches its maximum density at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F) at 1 atm pressure. Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, which in the liquid phase has a density of 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When water freezes into ice, it expands by about 9% and reaches a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, causing pipes to burst and rocks to crack. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of shrinking and densifying as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. At 4 °C (39 °F) in a lake or ocean, water sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, the liquid floats on top of the water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in the lakes would die in winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve appreciable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), while water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below its boiling point, water can turn into vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation through a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and precipitation also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes are formed by precipitation of aerosol particles or ice cores. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then kept under low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances increase in volume when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. But because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures deep in the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park, exceed 205 °C (401 °F). Temperatures in hydrothermal vents can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time should be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by raising the boiling temperature. Water in a vacuum will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
The pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) has curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (quite different from those of ambient water) are density sensitive. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in various applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry, and in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. It plays a crucial role in the formation, melting and precipitation of minerals in the Earth's mantle. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Other ice Ic with cubic crystal symmetry may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally, and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in the formation of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors in their mouths that can sense the presence of water, and frogs can smell it. However, water from conventional sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Clear water becomes conspicuously blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a clean white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the tones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column according to Beer's law. This also applies to a pool, for example, when the light source is sunlight reflected off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of water's low tones means that glass cuvettes with shorter path lengths can be used. A path length of about 25 μm is required to observe the main stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution around 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm). Also, the cuvette should be both transparent and water-insoluble around 3500 cm−1; calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live hundreds of meters deep in water because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans deeper than 1,000 meters (3,300 feet). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), as is that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and ordinary glass (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In the water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners have lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Along with the twisted structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide—the latter providing the gas in fizzy drinks, sparkling wines, and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other events important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils, and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a liquid or solid water molecule can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that holds molecules together in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (0.561 to 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at regulating Earth's climate, storing heat, and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds at about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of this is electrostatic and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary motion refers to the tendency of water to move upward through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, like trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - resulting in an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH- with the solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by dissolving small amounts of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: under normal conditions, its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1. Even in 4 km deep oceans with a pressure of 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances with little attenuation in water, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a feature used by mariners and humans for communication and environmental surveys (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water to form hydroxides and release the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water on Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, the glaciology of glaciers, the limnology of inland waters, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The mass of water found above, below, and on the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth's estimated water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as oceans, seas, lakes, streams, rivers, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fracture patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that leads to the formation of volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for transporting the large amount of sediment that occurs on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, among the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water is constantly moving through each of these regions in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation into the air from oceans and other bodies of water and transpiration into the air from land plants and animals. precipitation from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. water flowing from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean is returned to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff, about 47 Tt per year, and evaporation and transpiration from landmasses account for 72 Tt per year. At a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, there are several forms of precipitation: mostly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high-density water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to form a rainbow. Runoff often accumulates over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs, usually when a low-lying area is covered with water. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below-average precipitation, either because of its topography or because of its latitudinal location. Water resources
Water resources are natural resources of water that are potentially beneficial to humans, such as a drinking water supply or source of irrigation water. Water occurs in both "stock" and "flow" forms. Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. About 69 percent of the total volume of global fresh water is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water is stored is highly variable: some aquifers contain water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can change on a seasonal basis, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. For some regions, a significant portion of the water supply consists of water withdrawn from water stored in reserves, and reserves are depleted when withdrawals exceed recharge. According to some estimates, about 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation is caused by unsustainable groundwater abstraction, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride and smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)), and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing. Water salinity in the large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its very high salinity levels of 30-40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the periodic rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and create oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The intertidal zone, a strip of seashore submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are important for the reproduction of life. It fulfills this role by ensuring that organic compounds react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve, and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to develop larger molecules (such as starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (such as glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy, reforming water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water also plays a central role in acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e. proton) donor, can be neutralized by a proton acceptor such as a base, such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), to form water. Ideally, water with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 is considered neutral. Acids have pH values ​​below 7 and bases have pH values ​​above 7. Aquatic creatures
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of their lives on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide variety of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including respiratory tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in aquatic environments, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 CE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries, which flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also built on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors like Singapore have also prospered for the same reason. In places where water is more scarce, such as North Africa and the Middle East, access to clean drinking water has been and continues to be a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is referred to by various names other than potable or drinking water and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by state regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm unreacted chlorine for swimming water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning each person consumes less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water each year. Globally, 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cubic feet) of domestic wastewater is produced annually. Freshwater is a renewable resource that is recycled by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it result from its naturally uneven distribution over space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, about one billion people in the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; About five million people die each year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all domestic wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, home to about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of these countries withdraw more water than is replenished by the natural water cycle each year. Stress not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The most important human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80-90 percent of total human water consumption. In the US, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of "consumed" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built complex water systems for water collection, treatment and delivery, and wastewater removal. But increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are raising concerns about water problems and increasing competition for stable water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to examine whether there is enough water to feed the world's growing population. It assessed the availability of available water for agriculture globally and mapped places suffering from water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world's population, or more than 1.2 billion people, live in areas with physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report notes that it will be possible to produce the food that is needed in the future, but continuing today's food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to increase productivity to meet growing demands for food, while industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage has occurred: for example, the former Soviet Union's withdrawal of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production played a major role in the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth of a cubic meter and at the melting temperature of ice." For practical purposes, a metal reference standard a thousand times larger than the kilogram was required. Therefore, the work was assigned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Although the established definition of the gram specifies water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and conduct their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, then measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, which was determined to be exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but contains small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. The waters of rivers and lakes contain less heavy isotopes than sea water. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Medium Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although it can range from 45% to 75% in individuals. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily water intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gallons) for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is taken in through foods or drinks other than drinking plain water. The medical literature recommends consuming less than 1 liter of water for the average man, except for additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stressors such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink more water than they should while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" has no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. In 1945, the original recommendation for water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "The usual standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in processed foods." The US National Research Council's latest dietary reference report recommends based on average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) for women, about 19% non-water. total water intake in the study. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men drink an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), and lactating women should get 3 liters (12 cups), because especially large amounts of fluid are lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the rest from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in various forms; urine and faeces, with perspiration and exhalation of water vapor in the breath. Water loss will increase with physical exertion and heat exposure, and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with a small amount of impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutions are acceptable and even desirable to enhance taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest supply of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Wash
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used as a solvent or reactant in chemical reactions and less frequently as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these features are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water was observed. Supercritical water has recently become a subject of research. Oxygenated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to their availability for both cooling and heating and their high heat capacity. Cool water can even be obtained naturally from a lake or sea. Because of its large latent heat of vaporization, it is particularly effective at transporting heat through evaporation and condensation of water. The disadvantage is that metals commonly encountered in industries such as steel and copper oxidize faster with untreated water and steam. Almost all thermal power plants use water as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a coolant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or to transport it by evaporating in a cooling tower). Cooling power plants are the largest use of water in the United States. Water can also be used as a neutron moderator in the nuclear power industry. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of quenching the reaction are preferred, and it is preferable to cover the nuclear core with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high vaporization temperature and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic substances float on the water and the water tends to spread the flammable liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used in very hot indoor fires, and hydrogen explosion, when certain metals react with water or hot carbon, such as coal, charcoal or coke graphite, breaks down the water to form gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved did not come from firefighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the superheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. The hydrogen explosion may have been caused by a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance often shipped in paper bags. If these are absorbed, they may ignite as the contents react with water. Rest
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and unwind. Many people find the sound and sight of running water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and companionship. People also use the water for snow sports such as skiing, snowboarding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be frozen or frozen at a low temperature. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from man-made boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Thus, building more wells in adequate locations is a possible way to produce more water, given that aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Treatment of water for human consumption may be required. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis are available. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, tanker deliveries, or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water for free to those in need. Reducing use by using potable (drinking) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets within the city to conserve fresh water resources. Pollutant water may be the single greatest abuse of water; to the extent that the pollutant limits other uses of the water, regardless of its benefit to the polluter, it becomes a waste of the resource. Like other types of pollution, it is not included in the standard accounting of market costs, but is treated as an externality that the market cannot account for. Thus, other people pay for water pollution, and the profits of private firms are not distributed to the local population who are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and fail to biodegrade. Domestic and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reducing contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on water-soluble chemicals, suspending solids in water slurries, or using water to dissolve and remove substances, or reactions to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water that require dedicated water sources and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in electricity production. Hydroelectricity is electricity generated from water electricity. Hydroelectric power is obtained from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. As a rule, a dam is built on the river and an artificial lake is created behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Used in pressurized water, water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Besides being used as a chemical solvent, water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutions (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment methods for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially AI, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI "could threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous form, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays an important role in the field of food science. Solvents such as salts and sugars in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature due to the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, an increase in the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Water-soluble substances also affect many chemical reactions and the activity of water, which affects the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Water soluble substances reduce water activity - this is important to know because bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Water hardness is also an important factor for food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality and also play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or 60 mg/L (US). According to a 2010 Water Footprint report, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also state that this is a global average and that the amount of water used in beef production is determined by contingent factors. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is formed as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this flow of material impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. In this hot dense gas, observed water forms quickly. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant water vapor cloud surrounding a quasar 12 billion light-years away, containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined." According to the researchers, "the discovery suggests that water has dominated the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, most planetary systems are likely to have similar components. Water vapor
Water exists in vapor form:

Sun's atmosphere: detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over full atmosphere, typically 1-4% at surface
Moon's atmosphere: trace amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and its satellite Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - lies in deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cold stars and are even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circular disks: AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, including those belonging to more than half of T Tauri stars such as VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Mars sometimes has small amounts of liquid water. Scientists believe that liquid water on Enceladus' Saturnian moons may be mixed with ammonia as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, with Titan as a subsurface layer. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer trapped between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mostly as layers of ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks In September 2009, NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Lunar Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Moons of Jupiter: The surface of Europa, as well as the moons of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And probably also available here:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, where the molecules have broken down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and superionic water, where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions are contained within the nearly free phloatox. Water and the habitability of the planets
The presence of liquid water on Earth, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; If it were slightly closer to or farther from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), it would be very unlikely that the conditions would exist that would allow all three forms to exist simultaneously. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to retain its atmosphere, including moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or non-existent atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that, when present in regular amounts, helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature. The state of water on a planet depends on the atmospheric pressure determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved almost everywhere in the world in recent decades, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability by 2025. A report published in November 2009 said that by 2030, water demand will exceed supply by 50% in some developing regions of the world. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source. It is estimated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. mismanagement and corruption are hampered. In addition, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by water sector donors as effectively as those in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture identified poor management as one of the causes of some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions about water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply "plans" that work in the developed world to developing world settings and contexts. The Mekong River is an example; A review of policies by the International Water Management Institute in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that comprehensive and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's water bill was more complicated than it should have been. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN's World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion people (46%) do not have access to safe managed sanitation. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report notes that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Still, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, and flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased 2.5 times. Between 2000 and 2019, the cost of these floods was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute runs projects to use effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22, and World Oceans Day is celebrated on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of “Water Scarcity” because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-stressed countries, and at least 4 billion people experience water scarcity annually. droughts cost $307 billion a year. He demanded a policy according to reality, not past norms. In culture
religion
In most religions, water is considered purifying. Beliefs that include ritual washing (dastamaz) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (here called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Qusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (dastamaz), if there is no water (see: Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used to purify a person or an area in almost all ceremonies (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for baptism, blessing of people, places and things, or for warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (ab) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as the primary substance or basic substance of the universe. Described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, Thales proposed the theory that the earth, which is denser than water, emerges from water. Monist Thales believed that everything was created from water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associates water with phlegm as cold and damp. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest perfection is like water. The superiority of water is seen in that it benefits all things, and does not aspire (on the contrary) to a low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to the Tao," and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, but there is nothing superior to it in attacking solid and strong things, for to change it (so effective) is a nothing." water" and attributing the natural qualities of the people of various Chinese regions to the nature of local water resources. Folklore. "Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic fairy tales as a means of raising the dead. Note the Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's important modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the Ithaca chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". Richard E. According to Madtes, the hymn is not merely "a monotonous series of facts," but its phrases, like its subject, "are considered plagued meadows, pale flower waters, stagnant basins." It is one of the most remarkable passages in Ithaca and, according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of elevating to poetry all the jumble of legible information collected in schoolbooks". The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. Below is the hymn quoted in full. What did Bloom, the water lover, the water grasshopper, the water carrier back to the range, admire in the water? Its universality: its persistence in its own nature in the search for democratic equality and its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unfiltered depth in the Sundam trench more than 800 fathomless waves of the Pacific Ocean. and that the particles of the surface alternately visit all points of the sea-coast: the independence of its units: the variability of sea-states: its hydrostatic quiescence in calms: its hydrokinetic stasis at dry and spring tides: its subsidence after break-up: its unevenness in polar glaciers, arctic and pre-antarctic: its sign. over the dry lands of the world: its undisputed hegemony, extending in square leagues over the whole region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primary basin: its luteofulvous deposit: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances: millions of tons of metals and of the most sluggish metals. capes: its alluvial sediments: weight, volume and density: impassability in lagoons and highlands: gradation of colors in warm and temperate and frost zones: streams associated with vehicles in continental lakes and rivers that flow into the ocean, their northern rivers and rivers that join their three rivers: southern rivers. equatorial courses: severity in sea earthquakes, basins of water, artesian wells, eruptions, floods, eddies, fresh waters, floods, inundations, basins, water features, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, floods, cloudbursts Springs and latent moisture, detected by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate exemplified by a well with, saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of its composition, two constituents of hydrogen and one constituent of oxygen: oxygen in its composition: Sea: continuous penetration in streams, creeks, inadequate dams, ship leaks: properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: infallibility as a paradigm and example: metamorphoses into steam, fog, cloud, rain, blizzard: variety in the form of snow, blizzard. in lakes, bays, gulfs, bays, inlets, lagoons, atolls and archipelagos, sounds, fjords, minches and tidal rivers and tributaries: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, glaciers: in working hydraulic mills, turbine installations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power in power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, holes, bays, gulfs, gulfs, atolls and archipelagos, fjords, minches, tidal rivers and sea in his arms. tanneries, mills: its utility in canals, rivers, navigable, floating and flood docks: its potentiality can be derived from a level-to-level stream or watercourse: its underwater fauna and flora (anaacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, its inhabitants: body: in lake marshes, noxious meadows, pale flower-waters, noxious wastes of its waste in waning-moon stagnant pools to be Artist and activist Frederica Foster commissioned The Value of Water at St. John's Cathedral in New York. The largest exhibition ever seen at the cathedral featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an environmental collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to illustrate the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a number of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story involved safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used as a catchphrase or adlib by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done so include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have performed entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Timeline: The Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal for World Bank strategy, work and publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Internet
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 min, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine . H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary