Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the primary symbol of the Earth’s rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is the water of all known organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, has strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds that contribute significantly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known life, even if it does not provide food energy or be an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance throughout the world, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is considered the "universal solvent." Since the Earth's temperature and pressure are close to the three point of water, water exists as a solid, liquid, and gas on Earth. It produces rain-like rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made up of suspended droplets of water and ice in the solid state. When properly separated, crystalline ice can flow as a snowflake. Water in its gaseous state is called steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth’s surface, with lakes and oceans making up most of the water (about 96.5%). Major portions of water are groundwater (1.7%), glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and air vapor, clouds (ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water continuously moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually to the ocean. Your water is an important part of the global economy. About 70% of freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Both saltwater and freshwater fisheries are a staple food source in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world’s protein. Most long-distance commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) are transported by ship across lakes, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used in industrial and domestic cooling and heating. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; thus, it is widely used in industrial processes such as cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also essential to many sports and other recreational activities, including swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Study of etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-German *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, root form suffix *wed- (‘water’; ‘wet’). It is also cognate, by Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), and English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History of the
On Earth
Properties of the
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless and slightly turbid. Hydrogen chalcogenide is the simplest, by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes referred to as the “universal solvent” because it can dissolve more substances than other liquids, but it is not good at dissolving non-polar substances. It acts as the "solvent of life": in fact, water as found in nature almost always contains some sort of dissolved substance, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. The states are
Along with oxidant, water is one of two official names for the chemical compound H2O; and liquid phase in the presence of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat causes phase transitions: freezing (water ice), melting (ice water), vaporization (water vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). Density and so on
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes denser as it cools at certain temperatures; it is the only known natural substance which acts as a liquid. It is also unusual in that it becomes less dense when frozen, but in this respect it is no different. At a maximum pressure of 1 atm, the maximum density is 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). At temperature below, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, when its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water temperature drops to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the water temperature decreases. As it freezes and turns to ice, the water content increases by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause excessive pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of contraction and becomes denser as it cools. These unique thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or lake, 4 °C (39 °F) of water sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on top, floating in the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic life in the lakes would die in the winter. Moreover, this anomalous behavior is important for the thermohaline circulation which distributes warm water around the planet’s oceans. Magnetism is good
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets a higher interaction can be achieved. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, if the boiling point of water is lower, the water surface can change to vapor through evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition on surfaces. For example, frost to cold areas and snowflakes are formed by the deposition of an aerosol particle or ice core. In freeze-drying, a food is frozen and stored under low pressure to sublimate on ice. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of the melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T. The character of T
            
            
              d
              P. =
        
          
            
              T. The character of T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L. and so on
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S. and so on
                    
                  
                
                ) L. and so on
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display style {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

wherever 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L. and so on
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and the 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S. and so on
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, respectively 
  
    
      
        
          L. and so on
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display style L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases as they melt, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. But because ice is much less dense than water, the melting wind is increasing. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur in sufficiently thick volumes of ice to form subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation can also be applied to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at elevated temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, at Old Faithful, where temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F), there is a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can reach 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the water temperature is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired results. Conversely, use a pressure cooker to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. A vacuum will boil water at room temperature. Three times and important points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see illustration), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a place called the triangle, where they can live together for three months. The three-dimensional value is 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the three point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve was completed at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; properties (which are very different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can freely mix with nonpolar compounds, as well as with most organic compounds. It is useful in a variety of applications such as high-temperature electrochemistry as an ecologically benign solvent or as a catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth’s mantle, it acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. One with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can form in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms additional crystalline structures. By 2024, twenty have been verified experimentally, and several have been verified theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a centered-cubic, superionic ice phase, is achieved when a drop of water rises in a shock wave, raising water pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperature to thousands of degrees, forming a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which atoms of hydrogen flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square grid. The chemical composition of liquid water is poorly understood; some theories attribute its unusual behavior to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and aroma
Pure water is said to be tasteless and odorless, humans have limited sensors to detect the presence of water in their mouths, and greens are known to be able to smell it. However, regular water (including mineral water) contains many dissolved substances that can impart different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have evolved senses to avoid drinking water that is too brackish or dirty. Color and shape
Clear water is visibly green because light is absorbed in the region c. in the range of 600–800 nm. The color can be easily seen in a glass of tap-water with a pure white background, in daylight. The principal absorption bands are the colors and overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This is also used, for example, in the swimming pool where the sunlight is reflected off the white tiles of the pool. In the environment, the color may also change to brown due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy uses aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of water’s low overtones means that glass cuvettes with short path-lengths can be employed. Observe the fundamental stretch absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region up to 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) with a path length of about 25 μm. In addition, the cuvette was both transparent at 3500 cm−1 and waterproof; calcium fluoride is a material that is commonly used for deck windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, in a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can survive in water up to hundreds of meters deep because of the sunlight that reaches them. Almost no sunlight reaches the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20°C (68°F)) is that of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627) and common glass types (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of a tetrahedron, which is the center of the oxygen. The other two corners contain lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the individual pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge and the hydrogen atoms have a positive charge. Along with its bent structure, it imparts an electric dipole moment to the molecule and makes it a polar molecule. Water is an excellent polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the fizz in carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, in many living substances, proteins, DNA and polysaccharides are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules give rise to protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Bonding with hydrogen
For polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state must form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. Hence the melting and boiling point of water is much higher than other analogous compounds like hydrogen sulphide. They also reveal exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more useful in moderating the Earth’s climate, storing heat and transferring it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The amount of hydrogen in water is 23 kJ/mol (an O–H covalent bond is 492 kJ/mol). For this reason, it is assumed that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are caused by the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the ability of water to extend its force up a small tube. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as plants. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –the equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, is combined with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by the dissolution of small amounts of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be separated into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing it through an electric current called electrolysis. This decomposition requires a higher energy input than the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the lakes at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers a decrease of 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental (sonaring). Reactivity is slow
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent the alkali earth metals, expel hydrogen from water, form hydroxides and release hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and conditions of water on Earth. The study of water distribution is called hydrography. The study of groundwater distribution and movement is hydrogeology, glaciology is glaciology, groundwater limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology in ecohydrology. The combination of water found on a planet, its interior, and its surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate amount of water on Earth (total water in the world) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). A body of water found in a body of water, such as a lake, pond, lake, river, stream, channel, pond or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is ocean water. Water also exists in solid, liquid and vapor states in the atmosphere. It is also available as groundwater in aquifers. Water plays an important role in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle creates volcanoes in subduction zones, which is responsible for melting. In soil, water plays an important role in chemical and physical weathering. Water, and a small but significant amount of ice, also contribute to much of the sediment transport that occurs at the surface. Deposition of transported sediment produces many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth’s history. In the water source
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, ground water, surface water, ground water, and vegetation. Water moves permanently through each of these regions in the water cycle through the following transfer processes:

absorbing air from oceans and other bodies of water and absorbing air from terrestrial plants and animals. rain, water vapor condensed from the atmosphere and falls on land or ocean. land runoff tends to flow into the sea. Most water vapor found mainly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor to land, as does ocean runoff, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, 119 Tt per year over land, is of many types: mainly rain, snow, and hail, with lesser contributions of fog and snow. Snow condenses small droplets of water when a high density of water vapor meets cold soil. Fog usually appears in the morning when the temperature is at its lowest, before the sun sets and the ground temperature begins to rise. Cold condensed water can also refract sunlight to form rainbows. Water bodies accumulate in streams that flow into rivers. Through erosion, flooding shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when a piece of land, usually low lying, is flooded which is when a river overflows its banks or a storm surges. A drought, on the other hand, is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences water shortages. This occurs when a region regularly receives below-average rainfall due to its topography or latitudinal location. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are used by humans, for example, for drinking or irrigation. Water appears as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored in the form of oceans, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the world’s total freshwater is stored in glaciers and permanent snow; 30 percent in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in oceans, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The duration of water storage is highly variable: some aquifers have stored water for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. A significant fraction of water supply for some regions is drawn in water storage stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, resulting in groundwater depletion. Seawater and tide
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride, and much smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from those of fresh water in some important ways. At low temperatures (approximately −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) the density increases with decreasing temperature below the freezing point, not reaching maximum density after a freezing temperature. Water salinity in the Great Lakes varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea is characterized by ultra-high salinity with a salinity of 30 to 40%, it is actually a salt lake). Tides are the cyclic rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun exerting pressure on the oceans. Tides cause changes in sea and estuarine water depth and cause oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide created at a particular location combined with the changing position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth and the local bathymetry around the Earth. The coastal strip submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Threat to life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are essential for the extension of life. This process is accomplished by allowing organic compounds to react for subsequent replication. All known life depends on water. Water is essential as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and is essential for many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy through enzymatic chemical reactions) for the growth of larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water breaks bonds to form smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids for use as fuels or for other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes would not occur. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to split water into oxygen and hydrogen. In the sun, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, is neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor to form the hydroxide ion (OH−) water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in its ideal state. Acids have a pH less than 7 and bases have a pH of 7. Aquatic life
The waters of the earth are full of life. Ancient creatures appeared in the water; nearly all fish are aquatic, and there are a variety of marine animals such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their life in water, and parts of it on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally part of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to get oxygen to survive, and they do so for a variety of reasons. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species have both, such as lungfish. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals, need to surface regularly for a breath of air. Some amphibians absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show many adaptations to live in poorly oxygenated water, including breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life forms aquatic, most have little or no specialization for aquatic breathing. Threatening human civilization
Civilization has always developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The ancient Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries which flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome is also located on the Tiber River in Italy. The great metropolises, such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong, are in part easily accessible by water, and trade has therefore increased. Islands with safe water ports like Singapore have proliferated for the same reason. In North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water is, and still is, a vital part of human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable or potable water. Non-potable water can be processed for drinking by filtration or distillation, or by other means. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for watering or bathing is known by various names, not drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes called fresh water, or "safe for bathing." Chlorine irritates skin and mucous membranes, which can be used in bathing or swimming. Its use is highly technical and usually subject to government guidelines (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine for unreacted wastewater for wash water). Water for washing can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological condition with chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or with ultraviolet light. Water wastewater is the conversion of wastewater (commonly called sewage, also municipal wastewater) into water, which can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, which means each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. Globally, 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced annually. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrologic cycle, but pressures to access it are naturally unequally distributed in space and time, economic demands from growing agriculture and industry, and growing populations. Today, nearly billions of people around the world lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to reduce water access by 2015 to half of the world’s access to safe and clean water. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to ensure universal access to safe, clean, affordable water and sanitation by 2030, which is deadly; about five million people a year die from waterborne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. Nearly 50 countries, nearly a third of the world, suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 countries withdraw more water each year than is recharged by natural water cycles. The strain not only affects freshwater surfaces like rivers and lakes, but also groundwater resources. The management of the people
Agricultural production
Human water consumption tends to be larger for irrigated agriculture, accounting for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is used for irrigation, but most of that water goes "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) to agriculture. Access to fresh water is important, especially in developed countries that have developed sophisticated water systems to collect, treat and deliver water, and dispose of wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are exacerbating water concerns, increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-soaked meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries grow, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water use in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Institute for Water Management in Sri Lanka to assess whether the world has sufficient water to feed a growing population. It has now analyzed the availability of water for agriculture around the world and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. A fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion people live in water-scarce areas where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where lack of access to water or social problems makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report pointed out that while the future of convenience foods may be possible, the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends could lead to disastrous consequences in many areas. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must concentrate on producing to meet rising food demands, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the development of water softener products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—can produce 10.9 cubic meters (380 ft cu ft) of water. Cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, but it is consumed in regions where water is likely to be scarce. There have been significant environmental impacts: for example, the former Soviet Union’s diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production is largely responsible for the loss of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equivalent to a cube of one hundred meters, and the temperature of melting ice." But to help, we needed a metallic reference standard that was a thousand times heavier, the kilogram. So they worked out the exact size of a gallon of water. Although the decree definition of the gram was water specified at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of higher density water, which at the time was measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale in the SI system, which is based on the three water point, does read 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019, it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. This scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined as the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (defined as 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mainly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very low, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes has fewer heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Mid-Ocean Water Standard specification. For drinking
The human body is, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, sex and body type, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. According to the U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, the average daily water intake for adult men is 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gallons) for women. The accuracy depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. It is usually consumed through foods or drinks rather than drinking actual water. Medical literature favors a minimal diet, usually 1 liter of water for an average man, with no extra requirements due to fluid loss due to exercise or heat. Healthy kidneys excrete between 0.8 and 1 liter of water per hour, but stress, for example, and exercise can increase this amount. People who drink more water than they need while exercising can be at risk for water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can lead to death. The popular claim that “a person should drink eight glasses of water a day” cannot be scientifically proven. Studies have shown that increased water intake, especially 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 ﬂ oz US) during meals, is associated with weight gain. Drinking enough fluids is important to prevent constipation. An early recommendation for drinking water in 1945 by the U.S. National Research Council's Food and Nutrition Board stated: "An ordinary standard for various individuals is 1 milliliter per calorie consumed. Most of this quantity is in prepared foods." The latest dietary reference report is from the U.S. National Research Council. recommends in general, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food items): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) for women, considering that water available in food accounts for about 19% of total water taken in the study. In addition, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should increase to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), and lactating women to 3 liters (12 cups), as there is usually a significant fluid loss during lactation. It is also observed that normally, approximately 20% of water intake comes from food, with the remainder consumed by drinking water (including caffeine). Water leaves the body in many forms; with urine and feces, sweat, and exhalation of water vapor in the breath. Physical exertion and heat can increase fluid retention and increase the need for daily fluids. People want water with less impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are beneficial and needed to enhance flavor and provide necessary electrolytes. The only large (by volume) freshwater body suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Jariña
Transportation is limited
Use of chemicals
Water acts as a solvent or reagent in chemical reactions and is most commonly used as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions in which water is a common solvent, many ionic compounds dissolve, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds that are closely related to water. It is not used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions, as it does not dissolve reagents well and is amphoteric (both acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these properties are sometimes desired. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions in water was also observed. Supercritical water was recently the subject of a study. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently decomposes organic contaminants. Heat exchanger
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to their availability and high heat capacity for cooling and heating. Cooling water may be obtained naturally from the sea or ocean. Both vaporization and condensation of water can be used to transport heat due to its high latent heat of vaporization. One problem is that metals found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize faster than untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is the working fluid (used in a closed-loop in the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the refrigerant (used to convert waste to hot water or to be transported by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, wind farms are the largest consumers of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is a coolant and moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as the withdrawal of water from the reactor slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are effective in stopping a reaction and preferably the nuclear core is covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Firefighting considerations
Water has a very hot vaporization rate and is relatively inert, making it an excellent firefighting fluid. The evaporation of water carries heat from the fire. Fires using oils and organic solvents with water are dangerous because many organic materials float and water tends to disperse the burning liquid. The use of water for firefighting must be alerted to the dangers of steam, which can occur when water is used to extinguish hot fires, and exploded hydrogen, when substances react with water, such as some metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite. The power of such explosions was experienced in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved did not come from the fire but from the reactor’s own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when overheating of the core caused water to vaporize. A hydrogen explosion results from the reaction between steam and hot zirconia. Certain metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat from their reaction with water that they can cause fire. Quicklime alkaline earth oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance often transported in paper bags. If they are soaked in water, they can ignite when their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use the water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sport. These include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing, and scuba diving. Some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are also played on ice. Beaches, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go for relaxation and recreation. Many think the sound and look of the river is soothing, and fountains and other river creations are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to freeze or crystallize at a low temperature. The water industry
The water industry supplies drinking water and wastewater (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water sources include water tanks, cisterns for collecting rainwater, water mains, as well as water treatment plants, water wells, water towers, and water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are leading the way. Drinking water is often collected from wells, artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Thus it is possible to drill more wells in good locations to extract more water, assuming aquifers can provide a good flow. Other sources of water are rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This may include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation takes three steps. More advanced techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Many seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used during coastal droughts. Drinking water distribution is done through municipal water systems, tankers or bottled water. Governments in many countries have affordable water supply programs. Reducing the use of potable (drinking) water for human consumption only is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to preserve freshwater resources. Water pollution is perhaps the largest single misuse of water; because a pollution prevents other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of resources, with potential benefits for the polluter. As with other types of pollution, this does not enter standard accounting for market costs, which are thought of as externalities for which the market cannot account. So while other people pay the cost of water pollution, the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local population affected by the pollution. Chemicals consumed by humans end up in waterways and can harm nearby water bodies if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is treated in wastewater treatment plants. A variety of preventive and remedial measures have been taken to reduce runoff in the contaminated area. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions involving chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries or water to dissolve and remove substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and are often highly polluted. Water is used in power production. Hydropower is derived from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from using water in a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source. The energy is provided by the movement of the water. Generally, a dam is built over a river with an artificial lake behind it. Water from the lake is powered by turbines that turn generators. Water pressure is used in water sprayers and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for accurate cutting. It works well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. Also used to cool machinery to prevent overheating, or saw blades to prevent overheating. Water is used in many industrial processes and machines, including steam turbines and heat exchangers, and as a chemical solvent. Untreated water from industrial uses is polluted. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in the runoff and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence, consume large amounts of water, so the rise of AI could “threaten global and national water security”. Making the food
Boiling, steaming and roasting are popular cooking methods that often require foods to be submerged in water or in a gaseous, vaporized state. Water is used to wash the dish. Water also plays many important roles in food science. Solutes found in water such as salts and sugars affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as is air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures and lower air pressure occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the water temperature by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises it by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); also, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water can affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. The activity of water can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and preservation. Water solubility is also important in food processing and modified or treated with a chemical ion exchange system. It can greatly affect the beauty of a product, as well as play a role in cleaning. Water hardness is measured according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft, ranging from 100 mg/L (UK) to 60 mg/L (USA). According to a report published by the Water Footprint Organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 gal US) of water; however, the authors also stress that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used for beef production. Medical management
Water for injection is included in the World Health Organization’s list of essential drugs. The distribution of the environment
In the world of the
Most of the water in the sky is formed as a by-product of the formation of stars. With the formation of stars, gas and dust are accompanied by intense external winds. When the release of this material eventually hits the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water evaporates immediately from the hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a massive cloud of water vapor containing “140 trillion times more water than all of Earth’s oceans” orbiting a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the finding suggests the near-pervasive presence of water in the universe." Water is found in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Other galaxies may have abundant water, since hydrogen and oxygen are among the most abundant elements in the universe. According to models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems would have the same ingredients. The water is very strong
Water in the form of steam:

The Sun's atmosphere: a trace of detectable quantities
Mercury’s atmosphere: 3.4%, and Mercury’s exosphere contains a lot of water
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%. Surface climate: ≈0.40% of full climate, generally 1–4% below surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: a summary
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%. The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – ices; the European Month
Saturn’s atmosphere – ices; Enceladus: 91% of Dione (subsurface ocean). Atmosphere of Uranus – less than 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not only in cold stars but also in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar discs: contain more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid head
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists say the liquid water on Enceladus’s saturnian moons is a 10-kilometre-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers south of Enceladus’ polar south, and that Titan, as a subsurface layer, may be covered in ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features which reveal a subsurface liquid water lake. Similarly, Jupiter's moon Ganymede may have a layer of high-pressure ice and water sandwiched between rocks. Head of the snow
Water in the form of ice:

 Mars: inside the regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon System: mainly in Earth’s icy form and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported that water molecules were detected by NASA’s Lunar Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization’s Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres and so on
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also the moons of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ringed system of the planet and in the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other known Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And possibly in the following ways:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys is a slow motion

Exotic forms
If water and other volatiles abound from the inner structures of Uranus and Neptune, water in the deeper layers can be considered ionic water, where molecules become a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still superionic water, where oxygen crystallizes, but hydrogen ions lattice oxygen they float freely. Water and planetary habitat
The presence of liquid water in the soil, and its presence to some extent in gaseous and solid form, is essential for life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were slightly closer to or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions for all three forms to exist simultaneously would be much less likely. The size of the earth also plays a role: gravity helps to hold an atmosphere, and air helps to hold it. Planets as small as Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (the greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when it is constant. The ambient pressure of a planet’s water is determined by the planet’s gravity. If a planet is massive, the water on that planet can be very dense due to high pressure under gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and problems
Water policy is the politics of water and water. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic global resource and an important element in many political conflicts. This causes health problems and threatens biodiversity. Although access to safe drinking water has improved in almost every part of the world over the last decade, nearly one billion people lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion people do not have access to safe water. However, some observers predict that by 2025, more than half of the world’s population will be affected by flooding. A report published in November 2009 estimates that by 2030, water demand in some developing regions will increase by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to safe water since 1990. The estimated share of people in developing countries with access to safe water has increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004, according to a 2006 United Nations report. but access to it is restricted by misuse and abuse. Furthermore, global aid initiatives, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, do not embrace water sector donors as much as education and health, allowing many donors to work on overlapping projects and recipient governments without incentives to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture identified improper management as a reason for some types of water scarcity. Water management is embedded in both formal and informal processes through which water management decisions are made. Effective water management is primarily about knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply ‘blueprints’ that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; an analysis by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that policymakers rely on for water in the Mekong River found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit and environmental impact analyzes are rarely conducted. They also felt that Cambodia's water legislation was more complex. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child died every 15 seconds from easily preventable waterborne diseases, often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report has been produced by UNESCO’s World Water Assessment Program to help decision-makers develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report estimates that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is classified as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. According to the report, 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or vulnerable water levels. Over the past 40 years, however, water levels have risen by about 1% per year, and are expected to increase at the same rate by 2050. Since 2000, water levels in the tropics have quadrupled, while water levels in the northern midlatitudes have increased by 2.5 times. The floods between 2000 and 2019 caused 100,000 deaths and costs of $650 million. Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management conducts projects aimed at improving water use to reduce poverty. Water conventions include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution by Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day will be held on 22 May and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations predicts humanity is entering a period of “Water bankruptcy” as more than 50% of oceans have declined since 1990, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world’s population lives in water scarce countries, 4 billion people face water scarcity at least one month per year, and drought periods cost $307 billion annually. It calls for policies to be aligned with actual standards. In the culture
In the field of religion
In most religions, water is considered a purifier. Faiths that engage in ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or afusion) of a person in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions such as Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath with clean water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five-day prayer can usually be performed after washing certain areas with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (e.g., in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for baptism, blessing of people, places, objects, or banishing evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Study of Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles viewed water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and a ylem, or universe, as a basic substance. Thales, pointing out that Aristotle was an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is larger than water, flows from water. Thales, a monist, believed in particular that everything was made of water. Plato believed that water has an icosahedral shape – a cube that flows easily compared to the earth. The theory of the four bodily humours is that water is associated with phlegm, being cold and moist. Also, the classic element of water is one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems adopt water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The greatest virtue (is) like water. The virtue of water appears in all things good, and effortlessly (or not), in its occupation of the smallest part, which is generally disliked." Therefore (its path) approaches the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world slower and weaker than water, while attacking strong and powerful objects nothing advances—for nothing (so effective) can be changed for it." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter further elaborates on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and the natural qualities of people in different Chinese regions Local folklore character of water resources
The "water of life" occurs in Germanic and Slavic tales to revive the dead. Consider the Grimm fairy tale ("Living Water") and the Russian dichotomy of living water and dead water. Fountain of Youth refers to a similar concept, magical water supposedly preventing aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by Irish author James Joyce, the "Ithaca" chapter is described as a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is a "water hymn." Richard E. Madtes says the hymn is not a "monotone string of facts," but that the phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the calm quiescence of the concluding 'pestilencial fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" passages, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, amounts to "the incomprehensible task of raising poetry to all the warlike foot of information accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water reflects the novel’s theme of “everlasting, ever-changing life,” and the hymn marks the conclusion of the novel’s motif. The melody of this song is based on everything. What in the water Bloom, water lover, water drawer, water collector returned to the range, praised?The university: democratic equality and constancy nature-like own level in search: vast ocean projection in Mercator: unplumbed depth in Pacific Sundam trench over 8,000 fathoms: waves and restless particles surfaces visiting in turn all points of its coast: the independence of its units: the variability of sea states: its hydrostatic quiescence at calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity on neap and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility on circumpolar, arctic and antarctic icepaths: its climatic and commercial significance: its preponderance of 3 to 1 over the dry globe: its undisputed hegemony extended in square leagues throughout the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteoful bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the more precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and promontories below: alluvial deposits: weight and volume and density: imperturbability in lagoons and upland tarns: gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: vehicular ramifications in continental lake contained streams and rivers oceanic confluents with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf stream, north and south equatorial courses: their violence in earthquakes, water wells, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, water basins, waterpartings, geysers, waterfalls, hydromassages,; whirlpools, floods, floods, cloud-bursts: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: spring, and latent moisture, shown by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and illustrated by the hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate, air saturation, dew distillation: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with a constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in Dead Sea waters: its persevering penetration in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks in on board: properties for cleaning, exhaustion and fire-fighting, vegetation nourishment: its infallibility as paradigm and paragone: its metamorphosis steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: the power of rigid hydrants: the various forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bays and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: their solidity in glaciers, . icebergs, ice flowers: its docility in working hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleach, tanning, scutchmills: its utility canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and gravelable docks: its derivable potentiality of harnessed tides or falling water courses from level to level: its fauna submarine and flora (anacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: their ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiality of their effluvia in lacustrine swamps, pestilential fens, waterlogged flower, stagnant ponds. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curates The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, anchoring the Cathedral’s year-long dependence on water. The large-scale exhibition set in the cathedral, featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an eco-friendly collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of water and sanitation being recognized as a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to highlight the impact of sanitation on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is technically correct but is rarely used as a chemical name for water. This name has been used in a number of jokes and jokes about scientific illiteracy. It all began in 1983 with an April article in a Durand, Michigan newspaper. The myth was based on safety concerns from the substance. Musica
The word "water" is used by many Florida rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who do this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Going even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida's water, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water." You can see the
Notes on the table
References
Observed constructions
For more reading
External characteristics

World Water Database
FAO Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Flood Chronology: Water Flood Database Archived January 16, 2013 from Wayback Machine
Water Geological Survey (USGS) . The portal provides access to World Bank strategy, guidance and associated publications on water resources
Water Resources Association of America August 24, 2018 Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 from the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the wonders of the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
The chemistry of water File June 19, 2020 Wayback Machine (NSF special report).
International Water and Steam Properties Association Filed September 27, 2022 at Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule that Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary