Water is an inorganic substance composed of the chemical element H2O. It is a weak, tasteless, odorless, and practically colorless chemical. It is the basic component of Earth’s rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the essence of all known organisms, acting as a buffer. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, regardless of its non-digestive or naturally occurring micronutrients. Because of its presence in all living organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its complex polarity relative to its molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal drug". Because Earth’s surface temperature and pressure are three times closer to that of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It consists of rain showers and dark aerosols. Clouds are suspended water and ice, and a stable environment. When properly distributed, crystalline ice can fall like snow. The state of water in the form of air and steam or steam. Approximately 71% of the Earth’s surface is covered by water, with oceans and seas making up most of the water (approximately 96.5%). Trace amounts occur as groundwater (1.7%), in ice and ice in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (with ice and water vapor suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water goes through the hydrological cycle of condensation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff, and generally reaches the ocean. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and remain, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boats across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Businesses and homes are cooled and heated using large quantities of water, ice, and hot water. Water is an excellent medium for a wide variety of materials, mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial applications and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many other sports and recreational activities, such as swimming, recreational boating, rowing, swimming, sport fishing, swimming, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Study of etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (sources also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, root *wed- impregnated background ('water'; 'water'). Also, through Indo-European roots, are Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), where English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. History of the
On the Earth
Properties of the
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost without a slight brownish color. Hydrogen chalcogenide is the simplest, by far the most studied of chemicals and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" because of its greater solubility than any other liquid, although it is poor at rejecting nonpolar substances. This makes it the "drug of life": in fact, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and a special step is required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only element that normally exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. Different countries
Along with oxidane, water is one of two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also a liquid in H2O. The other two common states of liquids are the solid ice, and the gaseous phase, vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: cold (water to ice), freezing (ice to water), warm water (water to ice), condensation (cold to water), sublimation (ice to ice) and deposition (ice to ice). Density of density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense when it freezes at a certain temperature; it is the only known naturally occurring compound that does so when wet. In addition, it is unique in that it does not harden at all when cold, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a mass of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, which has a density in the liquid of 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressures, pipe bursts and rock fractures. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of shrinkage and increased hardness on cooling. This unusual temperature has important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, the water temperature drops to 4 °C (39 °F), and ice rises, floating on the liquid. This ice prevents the bottom water from freezing, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic species in lakes would disappear in the winter. Moreover, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet’s oceans. Functional magnetism
Water is magnetic. Although contact is simple, it can achieve outstanding contact with high-conductivity magnets. Phase changes
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice freezes or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam freezes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even at the point of boiling, water can change to steam on its face by evaporation (the general evaporation of water is called steam). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, cold regions freeze while snowflakes are formed by aerosol particles or an ice nucleus. In freezing, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the surface ice forms. The melting and boiling processes are pressure dependent. A good approximation of how the variation of vibrational temperature occurs with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T. He pointed at him
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T. He pointed at him
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L. −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L. f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left (v_{\ncharacter{L}}-v_{\ncharacter{S}}\right)}{L_{\ncharacter{f}}}}}
  

where a 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L. {\direction v_{\character{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\ntranslation format v_{\ncharacter{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid, and 
  
    
      
        
          L. f
          
        
      
    
    {\ display format L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat. In most materials, the volume increases with melting, so the heat of melting increases with pressure. However, because ice is not as dense as water, thermal vibration is reduced. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur below sufficiently thick ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but when the liquid/air exchange occurs, the vapor has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at elevated temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In gas heaters, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 m. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than sea cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired results. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three points are important
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at one point called the three point, where all three parts can coexist. The three sections have a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the Kelvin temperature scale was defined by the three points. The water/vapour reaction ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as an important point. At high temperatures and pressures water and steam form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. They can be slowly introduced or diffused between gaseous and liquid solids; its nature (quite different from that of surrounding water) is sensitive. For example, when it comes to the right pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with nonpolar substances, including most substances in nature. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly material or catalyst in biochemical syntheses. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a crystalline substance with an equilateral triangular shape. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms additional crystals. By 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and many more are theoretically predicted. Seventeenth ice, ice XVIII, a face-centred-cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to shockwaves that raised pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperatures to thousands of degrees, creating a complex of oxygen atoms through which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When ice is inserted between layers of graphene, it forms a rectangular mesh. The chemical composition of liquid water is poorly understood; some theories attribute its unusual behavior to the presence of two fluid states. Taste sweet and fragrant
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific oral sensors, and frogs are known to have a sense of smell. However, water from shallow sources (including mineral water) often contains large amounts of dissolved compounds that can contribute to different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to analyze drinking water to avoid water that is too salty or corrosive. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to light absorption in the region c. 600–800 nm is available. The color can easily be seen in tap-water glass set against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. For example, this also applies to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pond poles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to suspended solids or algae. In practice, near-infrared spectroscopy is applied to aqueous solutions because the high viscosity of low-frequency liquids means that short-wavelength glass cuvettes can be used. To observe a broad phase absorption or water in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 µm), a path length of about 25 µm is required. Also, the cuvette should have a transparency of about 3500 cm−1 and be insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the most common ingredients in water-mixed cuvette windows. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be detected with, for example, a sample cell of 1 cm diameter. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in waters up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean that are less than 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), like that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common crystals (1.4 to 1.6). The melting point of ice (1.31) is less than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom is at an angle of 104.5° to the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near two corners of the oxygen-centered tetrahedron. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would be at an angle of 109.5°, but the attraction between the lone pairs is greater than the attraction between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example, methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms have partial negative charges while hydrogen atoms have partial positive charges. In addition to the structure created, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many biological components, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the molecules of these biomacromolecules govern protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other processes essential for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic compounds (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic compounds are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding reaction
Because of the polarity of water, a water molecule in a liquid or solid can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals forces of molecular attraction in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling point of water is much higher than that of other analogous substances such as hydrogen sulfide. Its exceptionally high specific heat (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)) are also explained. These properties make water more effective at dampening the Earth’s atmosphere, by storing and transporting heat between the oceans and atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to covalent O–H bonds of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, an estimated 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These interactions are responsible for the high surface tension and for the capability of the capillaries. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This quality is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, together with the resulting solutions of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrical conductivity
Pure water has no low-level electrical conductivity, and it increases with the dispersion of small amounts of ionic compounds, such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat supplied by the reaction (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). The machinery of the work
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its pressure ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under mild conditions. Even in the 4-km-deep ocean, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers a volume decrease of only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little irregularity, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that cetaceans and humans use to communicate and hear the environment (sonar). The characteristics of the
Metallic materials that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, form hydroxides and release hydrogen. At room temperature, coke, some carbon, and steam react to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the Earth
Hydrology is the study of the flow, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. Water distribution studies and hydrography. The study of groundwater distribution and movement is hydrogeology, glaciology is glaciology, soil hydrology is limnology and ocean distribution is oceanography. Environmental policy with hydrology is a focus in biology. The accumulated volume of water found on, below, and above a planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth’s water volume (total world water) is 1.386 trillion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, rivers, lakes, or marshes. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in the solid, liquid, and vapor forms. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure in this groundwater affects the degree of faulting. Water in the mantle is responsible for the formation of hot volcanoes in subduction zones. At the Earth’s surface, water is important for both chemical and physical weathering. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice is also responsible for much of the erosion that occurs at the surface. Sediment transport consists of several types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water passes through each of these areas continuously in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer pathways:

vapor from oceans and other bodies of water to the atmosphere and gases from terrestrial plants and animals to the atmosphere. precipitation, which results from the evaporation of warm water from the air and falling on land or sea. runoff from land that often reaches the sea. Most of the vapor found mostly in the oceans is re-entrant, but winds transport vapor over land at the same rate as runoff, about 47 Tt per year while condensation and evaporation over land also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Rainfall, which is 119 Tt per year on earth, comes in many forms: rain, snow, and hail are the most common, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew forms small droplets of water that condense when superheated water meets a cold surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when surface temperatures begin to rise. Moisture in the air can also distort sunlight into rainbows. Runoff tends to accumulate on tributaries. Through erosion, water flows through watersheds organize the environment for river valleys and waterfalls that provide fertile soils and perfect landscapes for the establishment of residential areas. Flooding occurs when a generally low-lying area of ​​land is covered by water that occurs when a river breaches its banks or a hurricane hits. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years in which a region experiences a shortage of water resources. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall due to its topography or due to its latitudinal location. Water resources
Water is a naturally occurring organic substance that can be useful to humans, for example as drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, steam, groundwater or aquifers, as well as ice and snow. Of the total global freshwater volume, an estimated 69 percent is stored in permanent ice and snow cover; 30 percent in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent is in lakes, rivers, weather, and ecosystems. The length of storage varies greatly: some aquifers serve as storage tanks for thousands of years, but lake levels can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during droughts and increasing during wet periods. Much of the water supply in some areas consists of extracting water from reservoirs, and when water withdrawals exceed recharge, the available water supply decreases. According to one estimate, about 30 percent of all irrigation water comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, resulting in groundwater depletion. Ocean currents and waves
Seawater contains, on average, about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus traces of other elements. Seawater differs from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as temperature decreases to freezing, rather than reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The water content of the larger oceans varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its very high salinity of 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are cycles of local ocean tides caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of the ocean and river and create oscillations called tidal rivers. Localized tidal fluctuations are caused by the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. The subsidence of the ocean beach at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological consequence of ocean waves. Its impact on life
From a biological perspective, water has many distinctive properties that are critical for abundant life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to react in a variety of ways that ultimately enable replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important as a medium in which many metabolites are dissolved and an important component in the metabolism of many metabolites. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy-demanding enzymatic chemical reactions) for the growth of larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy or other products). Without water, these particular metabolites could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the solar energy to split liquid hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen and CO2 (absorbed from air or water) combine to form glucose and oxygen is released. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, donating a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form a liquid. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 under ideal conditions. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic organisms
The surface waters are full of life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many different types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants like kelp and algae grow in the water and support an underwater ecosystem. Plankton are generally the foundation of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Cats have jaws instead of lungs, although some species, such as lung cats, have both. Marine mammals like dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit several adaptations to survive in hypoxic water including respiratory tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrates evolved in aquatic habitats, most lacked specialized knowledge of aquatic respiration. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically developed along rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, the so-called one cradle of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The earliest Indus Valley civilizations (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) flourished along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are in part due to ease of navigation and consequent commercial expansion. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have developed for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is severely scarce, access to safe drinking water was, and is, fundamental to human development. Health and pollution
Water that is fit for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Nonpotable water can be made by filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is known by various names other than drinking or potable water, and is sometimes referred to as safe, or "safe bathing" water. Chlorine is a skin and tissue irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often regulated by federal regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine for raw and sewage bathing water). Disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or ultraviolet light can be used to maintain bathwater in a satisfactory microbiological environment. Water recycling is the process of converting wastewater (often sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into reusable water. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, which means that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is generated worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recycled by the natural water cycle, but pressures on its availability stem from natural uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, about one billion people worldwide lack access to affordable safe water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals that by 2015, water would halve the number of people worldwide who lack access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to a Sustainable Development Goal for universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation kill about five million people a year from water-borne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from measles each year. In developing countries, 90% of all urban wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world’s population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these extract more water each year than is returned by their natural water cycles. The problem not only affects surface freshwater sources such as rivers and lakes, but also destroys groundwater. People who use it
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all water used by humans. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawals are used for irrigation, but most of the water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to safe water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying, and transporting water, and removing wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for permanent water supplies, and the notion of surplus water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or other water-intensive industries are likely, new water challenges will emerge. The International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted an agricultural water use study in 2007 to assess whether the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It looked at current water resources for agriculture around the world and mapped areas of water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of true water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demand. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or population growth makes it impossible for authorities to meet demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but sustaining modern food production and the environment will create problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase production to meet growing demand for food, as businesses and cities look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the abundance of raw materials. Cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—equivalent to jeans—takes 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to form. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world’s water consumption, the water is already being used in areas where water scarcity is at risk. The environment has been severely damaged: for example, the diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers into cotton by the former Soviet Union was responsible for the massive disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the quantity of pure water equivalent to a cup of one-hundredth of a metre, and the absolute burning weight of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a reference metal standard, in excess of a thousand pounds, was required. So work was commissioned to determine the exact weight of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the standard definition of the gram refers to water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest water volume, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale in the SI system was based on triple water, defined to be exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019, it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The measurement is a complete temperature scale that slopes like the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural waters consist primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but small amounts of the heavy isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) are also present. The percentage of heavy isotopes is much lower, but it still affects water quality. Water from rivers and lakes often contains as many heavy isotopes as seawater. Therefore, a standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. Because of their alcohol consumption
The average human body is composed of 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academy of Sciences, Technology, and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water daily for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is consumed through the consumption of foods or beverages that are not directly liquid. Medical literature favors low fluid intake, typically 1 liter per man, excluding additional demands due to fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of urine per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk for dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular saying "one should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that high fluid intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Drinking the right amount of water helps prevent constipation. An original proposal by the U.S. The Food and Nutrition Committee of the National Research Council issued in 1945: "The usual standard for various populations is 1 milliliter per dietary calorie. Most of these amounts are found in prepared foods." The latest report on food consumption by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The National Research Council issued in general recommended, based on all drinking water sources from the US. on study sources (including food source): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for males and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for females, noted as water content in a given diet to be 19% of total water intake during the study. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. U.S. The Institute of Medicine recommends an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should have 3 liters (12 cups), since particularly large amounts of fluid are lost during lactation. Also noteworthy is that typically about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Dehydration occurs in many different ways; by urine and feces, by perspiration, and by the inhalation of vapors during respiration. With physical exertion and heat, water loss will increase and daily water requirements may also increase. Humans need low-pollution water. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some dilutions are acceptable and even desirable for flavor and for providing essential electrolytes. The largest freshwater body (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Nhohoro
Transportation of goods
The use of chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical synthesis as a reactant or reactant and not as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, yielding many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds that are closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is rarely used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these things are sometimes wanted. Moreover, the rate of water-induced Diels-Alder reaction has been observed. Excessive viscosity has been a recent research topic. Very dense, oxygen-rich water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchanger
Water and steam are the most commonly used heat exchanger fluids, due to their availability and high heat capacity, for both cooling and heating purposes. Even condensation may come naturally from a lake or ocean. It is particularly effective in transferring heat through hot and cold water because of the large latent heat content of hot water. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are rapidly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all electric heating systems, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed circuit between boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and as a coolant (to exchange waste heat for water or for transport via steam in cooling towers). In the United States, electric refrigeration is the most widely used form of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron catalyst. In most nuclear reactors, water acts as a cooling and lubricating medium. This creates a neutral safety net, as the removal of water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, alternative methods of stopping a reaction are preferred and the nucleus is preferably encapsulated with water in order to ensure adequate cooling. Theories of fire
Water has a high boiling point and is completely inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. The hot water transfers heat to the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and solvents because many organic matter floats on water and the water tends to spread the burning water. Extinguishers must also consider the risks of explosions, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when water-reacting substances, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose. The potential of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting but from the reactor’s own coolant. Steam erupted as the excessive heat in the veins caused water to shine into steam. Possibly a hydrogen explosion due to a reaction between water vapor and zirconium vapor. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when reacting with water that a fire hazard is present. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced ingredient commonly packaged in paper bags. When placed in water, these can ignite as their contents react with water. Rest
People use water for a lot of recreation, as well as exercise and sports. These include swimming, water skiing, rowing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on the ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular destinations for relaxation and recreation. Many people find the sound and look of running water soothing, and fountains and other running structures are popular decorative elements. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a temperature below freezing or to crystallize into snow. Water supply services
The water service provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and businesses. Water supply systems include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, pipelines including existing sewers. Aerial hydroelectric devices are being developed. Drinking water is typically collected in canals, extracted from artificial borings (wells) in the earth, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more dams in the right places is therefore a viable option for more water, assuming the aquifers can generate adequate flows. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This may involve the removal of intact debris, dispersed material and harmful microorganisms. Popular methods include sanding to remove only insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation performs all three processes. There are more advanced methods, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of large amounts of seawater is an expensive solution for dry coastal areas. Drinking water is produced through urban water systems through distribution, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have free water distribution programs for the poor. Reducing the use of potable (potable) water for human consumption only is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution is perhaps the single greatest waste of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, it becomes a waste product, regardless of its benefit to the polluter. Like other forms of pollution, this does not enter into the normal calculation of market costs, and is assumed to be externalities that the market cannot account for. So other people pay for the water pollution, while the profits of the private companies are not redistributed to the local communities, the victims of this pollution. Chemicals consumed by humans often end up in the waterway and can adversely affect aquatic life if they accumulate and are not biodegraded. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are generally treated in wastewater treatment plants. Contaminated surface runoff is controlled through preventive and treatment strategies. Technical applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions in which solvents are dissolved in water, solids are dissolved in aqueous solutions or water for dissolution and extraction, or for washing products or manufacturing equipment. Industries such as water extraction, dyes, bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and power plants use large amounts of water, require dedicated water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydropower is electricity generated from hydroelectric power. Hydroelectricity comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectric power is a cheap, clean, and renewable source of energy. The energy is provided by the moving water. A dam is usually built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in blasting and cutting applications. High-pressure water guns are used for accurate cutting. It is efficient, safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or overheating of the saw blades. Water is also used in many industrial products and devices, such as boilers and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a solvent. Untreated water discharged from industrial processes is pollution. Pollution includes liquid discharges (chemical pollutants) and cooling water discharges (thermal pollutants). Industries require clean water for many purposes and purification processes are used in both supply and discharge. The digital industry, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the spread of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and steaming are popular methods of cooking that generally involve putting food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles in food science. Water chemistry is affected by waste products such as salt and sugar in water. Boiling and cooling effects on solubility, as well as air pressure, which in turn affects surface area. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressures occurring at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, higher concentrations of dissolved particles decrease viscosity. Solutes in water also affect water activity affecting many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. The activity of water can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Litter decreases water activity—this is important to know because most bacteria stop growing at low water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Solid water is also an important component in food processing and can be modified or processed by using chemical ion exchange systems. It can have a profound effect on the quality of an object and also plays a role in cleaning. Hard water is classified based on the amount of calcium carbonate in the water. Urine is classified as fragile if it is less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published in 2010 by the Water Footprint organization, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters of water (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal); however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and conditions determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical applications
Injectable fluids are on the World Health Organization’s list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the cosmic water is produced as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by strong external winds in the form of wind and dust. When these emissions eventually impact the surrounding air, shock waves are generated to compress and heat the air. The sight of water is faster in this thick hot gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a massive cloud of vapor with "140 billion times more water than all Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the findings suggest that water has been abundant in the universe for almost its entire lifetime". Water has been found in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Other galaxies may also contain abundant water, since their components, hydrogen, and oxygen, are among the most abundant in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar features. The water is hot
Water exists as steam in:

The Sun's Atmosphere: in small visible quantities
Mercury atmosphere: 3.4%, and lots of water in Mercury exosphere
Venus atmosphere: 0.002% . Terrestrial atmosphere: ≈0.40% at atmospheric equilibrium, typically 1–4% at surface
The Weather of the Month: in small quantities
Martian atmosphere: 0.03% . Ceres atmosphere
Jupiter atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and its lunar European edition
Saturn’s atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subterranean ocean) . Uranus atmosphere – at a few amounts below 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – found in the deeper layers
Extraplanetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: cool stars are not the only ones found even in hot supernovae like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Stellar globular disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, also VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. The water is a liquid
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Mars also sometimes has trace amounts of liquid water. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in Saturnia’s moons of Enceladus, as a 10-km-thick ocean about 30–40 km below Enceladus’ southern pole, and on Titan, as subsurface material, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics of being an ocean of subterranean waters. Liquid water may also be present on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as an interface between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice sheets
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and on the trees. Earth–Moon system: primarily as ice deposits on Earth and in Moon craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported that NASA Moon Mineralogy Mapper detected water particles on board the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Written by Ceres
Moons of Jupiter: the eyes of Europa as well as those of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system with the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it also appears to be available at:

Mercury bars
Tethys is the source

There are wonderful things
Most of Uranus and Neptune may be composed of water and other volatiles and the water in the deeper layers may be ionic liquid in which the components dissociate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deep remains surface water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but hydrogen ions flow freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent, its gases and solids, on Earth is essential for life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is close to the Sun or at a relatively small distance from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions for the simultaneous existence of the three modes will not exist at all. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravitational pull allows it to hold a certain atmosphere, including atmospheric moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have either a completely thin atmosphere or none. The presence of water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere creates a heat shield (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a constant surface temperature. The state of water on a planet depends on ambient pressure, determined by the planet’s gravitational pull. If a planet is large enough, the water layer can be dense even at high temperatures, due to the tremendous pressure exerted by gravity, as was observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and problems
Water politics is a politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a global resource and central to many political conflicts. It causes health effects and destroys biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world’s population will face a water-dependent crisis. A report issued in November 2009 predicts that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to safe water since 1990. The percentage of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A United Nations report in 2006 stated "enough water for all", but that access is hampered by poor policy and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid delivery, such as the Paris Agreement on Aid Efficiency, water donors have not been as effective as those in education and health, potentially disempowering many donors working in overlapping sectors with recipient governments. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for water scarcity in some ways. Water management consists of strategic and informal processes through which water management decisions are made. Good water management is essentially about identifying strategies that work best under specific physical and socioeconomic conditions. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply ‘theories’ that work in developed countries to developing parts of the world and situations. The Mekong river is one example; a study by the International Water Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong river for water found that full and transparent cost-benefit assessments and environmental assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia’s water laws were far more stringent than they needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable waterborne diseases, often linked to poor hygiene. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Research Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for sustainable water policy development. The 2023 report states that 2 billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. The urban population (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as static, due to excessive water consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or severe water stress. But over the past 40 years, water use has increased about 1% per year, and is expected to remain so until 2050. Since 2000, tropical flooding has quadrupled, while flooding in the north mid-latitudes has increased 2.5-fold. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million.Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Institute runs a series of projects aimed at implementing efficient water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions include the United Nations Convention against Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared humanity has entered an era of "Water degradation" as over 50% of large lakes have shrunk since 1990, 35% of glaciers have disappeared since 1970, 75% of world population live in countries without water, 4 billion people experience water scarcity for at least one month each year, and droughts cost $307 billion annually. It called for policies in line with reality rather than standards of the past. In terms of culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that include ritual washing (washing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or poking or dipping) is a fundamental Christian Sacrament (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, ritual baths in holy water are performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with fresh water (wudu), except in the absence of water (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (e.g., in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for baptism, to bless people, places, and objects, or as a means of driving away evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is considered the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four primordial elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or essence of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, argued that the earth, which is heavier than the water, came from the water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows faster compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humours associated water with urine, as cold and wet. Water in classical times was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is manifest in the beneficence of all things, and in taking, effortlessly (on the contrary), the lowest place disliked by all men." Thus (his approach) approaches (de) Tao" and "Nothing in the world is softer and softer than water, and yet when hard and hard things are attacked, nothing can take precedence—because there is no (efficient) substitute for it." and the natural characteristics of people in different parts of China are derived from local water Report characteristics
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian division of living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the opposite idea of magical waters supposedly preventing aging. Art and performance
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes up a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. According to Madtes, the song isn't just "singular facts," but rather its lyrics, like their title, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until it slows to a calm silence at the end of 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waying moon.'" the most impressive in Ithaca, and, according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, manages "the impossible task of getting all the jumbled footnotes that have accumulated in school textbooks into poetry." The title of the book of Water represents the novel's theme of "ever-changing eternity," and the song represents the climax of the novel. The following is the song quote in its entirety. What did Bloom, water lover, drawer, carrier back to the mountains, admire?Its universality: its democratic equality and consistency in its own searching position: its vastness in Mercator's theoretical ocean: its shallow depths in Pacific Sundam trenches over 8,000 fathoms: its waves and restless surface particles visiting in turn all points of its pono: its units independence: changing sea conditions: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: indisputably extending in square miles over the whole region below Capricorn's subequatorial tropic: many worlds stable on its original river: its luteofulvous beds: its capacity to dissolve and hold all soluble substances including millions of tons of most precious metals in solution: its millions of tons of most precious islands a it decomposes and holds it: millions of tons of its most valuable islands are included. and droplets: weight and size and weight: resistance to disturbance in lakes and mountain tarns: decline in color in tropical and subtropical regions: and vehicle effects in continental lakes with rivers and tributaries of ocean currents and their tributaries and ocean currents: gulfstream, north and southern equatorial courses: its disturbances in marine earthquakes, currents, artesian wells, eruptions, rivers, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, currents, waterfalls, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, inundations, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its privacy in spring, its hidden water, revealed and modeled by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and hole-in-the-wall wells in the Ashtown gate, air saturation, dew softening: elasticity, two parts hydrogen one part oxygen: its healing properties: its buoyancy in Dead Sea water: its eternal penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on shipboard: its cleansing qualities, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its turned as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and sea arms: its hardness in glaciers, icebergs, glaciers: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness it has canals, rivers, if navigable, hanging harbors and graving docks: its power derived from harnessed tides or water falling from level to level: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) in numbers, if not literally, world populations: lost flower water, languid pools in the waning moon. The Value of Water was curated by artist and activist Fredericka Foster, at the Cathedral of St. John of Heaven in New York City, which launched a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever shown at the Cathedral, more than forty artists appeared, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, a group of ecological artists who use water as their subject or guide. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark 10 years since the UN declared access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to capture the impact of clean water on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide humor
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is the technical term for water but is rarely used. This name has been used in a variety of hoaxes and jokes to ridicule scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools’ Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false claim was a safety concern about the product. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many rappers in Florida as a catchphrase or some kind of adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
The Observations
The sources of the information
Works cited
Reading in detail
External connections

World Water Page
FAO Water Resources Database, AQUASTAT
Times of Water Conflict: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS) . Policy, work and associated documentation of the Portal to The World Bank on water
American Plumbing Association Posted 24 March 2018 at Wayback Machine
Water on the website
Water Policy and Science Archived 28 December 2014 at Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Aquatic chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association of Wetlands Archived 27 September 2022 at Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecules That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary