Water is an inorganic substance with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent chemical that is tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless. It is the main source of the earth’s lakes, ponds and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, forms strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or a micronutrient from living organisms. Because of its presence in all living things, chemical stability, global abundance, and strong polarity as a small molecule, water is often called the “universal solution Since surface temperature and pressure approach three liquids, water exists on earth as a solid, liquid, and gas consists of suspended water and ice, when the ice is finely divided, the gaseous form of water is steam or ice Water covers about 71% of the Earth’s surface (about 96.5%) of water is found in the groundwater (1.7%) in sediments (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and precipitation (0.001%) Water always moves in the form of condensation is rainfall, which usually reaches the sea.About 70% of the freshwater used by humans in agriculture has been, and continues to be, a major source of food in many parts of the world, supplying 6.5% of the world’s long-distance protein (i.e. petroleum, natural gas, and manufactured goods) are transported by ships through oceans, rivers, lakes and canals Water, brine and steam are used for cooling and heating purposes in industries and buildings basic forms of recreation, such as cycling, recreational boating, sailing, scuba diving, sport fishing, scuba diving, swimming, swimming and creative skiing
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (origin also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Endo-European *wod-or, . suffixed form of root *wed- ('water'; 'water'). Also related, through Indo-European roots, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from which English ‘hydro-’ is derived), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. Tariku
On the ground
The resources available
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. Simple hydrogen chalcogenide, it is a well-studied chemical and is sometimes referred to as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more than any other liquid, although it is not recommended for dissolving non-polar substances. This makes it a "medicine for life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special methods are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only element commonly found as a solid, liquid, and gas in the earth’s crust. The Governors of the State
In addition to oxidation, water is primarily one of two names for the chemical element H2O; it is also the H2O liquid phase. The other two common physical states of water are the solid phase, i.e., liquid, and the gas, liquid, or steam phase. Addition or removal of heat can cause several phase transformations: cooling (liquid to ice), evaporation (liquid to liquid), vaporization (liquid to vapor), precipitation (liquid to liquid), sublimation, and deposition (liquid to liquid). Density (Density). Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less volatile when cooled within certain temperature ranges; it is the only naturally known entity to do so while submerged. Moreover, it is unusual in that it shrinks dramatically as it cools, although it is unusual in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum weight of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), the water expands (becomes sub-freezing) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its weight in water is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C, the water content decreases. As it cools to ice, the water expands by about 9%, to 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This growth can cause high pressures, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual tendency to shrink and become increasingly viscous as it cools. These unusual temperature patterns have important effects on life on earth. In the sea or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on top, floating on liquid water. This ice insulates the bottom water, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic life living in the lakes would perish in the winter. Moreover, this anomalous behavior is the most important feature of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the earth’s oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the bond is weak, with superconducting magnets it can have a specific bond. Phase transitions
At uniform atmospheric pressure (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even at boiling point, water can be changed to vapor at the surface by evaporation (vaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, snowflakes are deposited on cold surfaces while cooling is done by placing them on an aerosol shell or ice. When a food is freeze dried and then stored under low pressure to evaporate the ice on the surface. The melting point and boiling point depend on the pressure. A good estimate of the rate of change of excitation with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  − −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\ display {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left (v_{\letter{L}}-v_{\letter{S}}\right)}{L_{\letter{f}}}}}
  

where the 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\ display v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\ display v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar ratios of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\ display L_{\ text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of evaporation. For most materials, the volume increases with melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the evaporation rate is reduced. In glaciers, pressure gradients can occur under complex ice levels, resulting in subglacial deposits. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the density of the vapor phase is much lower than that of the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. Temperatures in hot springs can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of salt water is 212 °C. As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 m. For example, at a height of 1,524 m, the boiling time must be increased by one-fourth to obtain the desired yield. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the cooking temperature. With a vacuum cleaner, the water will boil at room temperature. Three points with seniors
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet in a single point called the triangle, where all three sections can coexist. The temperature of the triangle is 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and the pressure is 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi), which is the lowest possible pressure for liquid water. Until 2019, the three components were used to measure Kelvin temperatures. The liquid/vapor phase curve terminates at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a residual phase called supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like interfaces; its properties (which are very different from those of the surrounding water) are scaled by density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can be freely mixed with non-polar solvents, including most solvents. This makes it useful in a variety of applications such as high-temperature electrochemistry and as a catalyst or catalyst in organic chemical reactions. Soil in mantra acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur at the surface. As the pressure increases, the ice forms different crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally tested and several more are theoretically predicted. Eighteen types of ice, including wave XVIII, a medium-cubic, top-water ice, were formed when an ice melted raised water pressure to millions of atmospheres and raised its temperature to thousands of degrees, creating a structure of heavy oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. As the droplets are sandwiched between the graphene layers, the droplets form a square ring. The detailed chemical properties of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. The taste and smell
Purified water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specialized sensors to detect the presence of water in their mouths, and deer are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (industrial water) usually contains many compounds that can contribute to its distinctive taste and aroma. Humans and other animals have evolved sensory systems that allow them to judge how to drink water to avoid water that is too salty or corrosive. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap-water placed on a pure white platform, in the sun. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of O–H stretching vibrations. Apparent color intensity increases with wave depth, following Beer’s Law. This is also the case, for example, in a pool if the light source is sunlight reflected from the pool’s white tiles. Naturally, the color may also change from blue to yellow due to suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with liquids because the surface energy of the water surface is high, which means that glass cubes with shorter path lengths can be used. To observe the steady absorption of water or a liquid in the region around 3500−1 cm (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is needed. Also, the cube must be transparent around 3,500 cm and waterproof; calcium fluoride is one of the ingredients commonly used in cube windows with liquids. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be monitored using, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic fish, fish, and other organisms can survive in water up to hundreds of feet because sunlight can reach them. In fact, no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters deep. Liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) has a much higher melting point than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and various glasses (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity. In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners have lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would have an angle of 109.5°, but the displacement between the individual bonds is larger than the displacement between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other elements have tetracyclines, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms have a negative partial charge while hydrogen atoms are partially charged positively. In addition to the curved structure, this imparts an electric dipole moment to the molecule and it is treated as a polar molecule. Water is an excellent polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophobic compounds such as sugar and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the fizz for soft drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules determine how proteins fold, DNA base pairing, and other events important for life (hydrogen effect). Many solvents (such as fatty acids and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic elements are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules in most waters. This is why water has a much higher melting point and boiling point than other similar substances such as hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its relatively high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K), fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water capable of controlling Earth's climate, by storing and transferring heat between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonding of water is around 23 kJ/mol (compared to 492 kJ/mol for the covalent O–H bond). Thus, it is estimated that 90% may be electrostatic, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These interactions are responsible for the high surface viscosity and capillary strength of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise up a small tube in response to the force of gravity. This characteristic is imposed on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a strong hydroxide hydroxide solution –there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, as well as a solution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electricity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical energy, which is enhanced by the dissolution of a small amount of ions such as solid salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical performance
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its viscosity ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only 1.8% by volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1400 and 1540 m/s (4600 and 5100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property used by agriculture and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity (Internal Reactivity). Metallic compounds containing more copper than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At higher temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the ground
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and properties of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is irrigation. The study of groundwater distribution and movement is hydrological, that of wetlands is glacial, inland water is limnological and the distribution of oceans is oceanographic. Environmental processes and water systems are ecologically relevant. The total amount of water found on, below, and above the earth’s surface is called aquifer. The estimated water capacity of the earth (total global water supply) is 1.386 trillion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic feet). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as the ocean, sea, lake, river, lake, canal, lake or reservoir. Most of the water on Earth is ocean. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor forms. It also exists as groundwater in reservoirs. Water is essential for many geological processes. Most rocks contain groundwater, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fill properties. Water in the mantle is responsible for the eruption of volcanoes in subduction zones. In the earth’s crust, water has important chemical and physical properties. Water, and to a lesser but still extent, tides, also contribute to the transport of many land-based pollutants. The deposition of transported sediments produces a variety of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. In terms of water resources
Irrigation (scientifically known as hydrology) is the continuous exchange of water within a watershed between atmospheric and ground water, surface water, groundwater and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in a hydraulic system consisting of the following flow processes:

the release of moisture from oceans and other bodies of water to the atmosphere and the release of moisture from land plants and animals into the atmosphere. rainfall, from drops of water rising from the atmosphere and falling on land or sea. groundwater usually reaches the ocean. Most of the ice that forms mainly in the ocean returns to it, but the winds carry ice over land at the same rate as the ice that travels to the ocean, about 47 Tt per year while ice and glaciers forming on the continental shelves also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with an annual average of 119 Tt on Earth, comes in many forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with some coming from fog and snow. Mists are small droplets of water that freeze when an iceberg meets a cold surface. Frost usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when ground temperatures begin to drop. Moisture in the atmosphere can also distort sunlight to produce torrential rain. Runoff is often collected on reservoirs flowing into rivers. Through erosion, drainage shapes the environment creating riverbanks and deltas that provide fertile and pristine land for population settlement. A flood occurs when a portion of the earth, usually a low-lying area, is covered with water formed by a river at its mouth or during a storm. A drought, on the other hand, is an extension of months or years when a region notices a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives above average rainfall due to its topography or latitudinal location. Water Resources
A water resource is a source of water that can be useful to humans, for example, as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water is available as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as ponds, brine, groundwater or reservoirs, and ice and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the world’s total freshwater is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, air and biota. The length of time water remains in the region varies greatly: some reservoirs become stored water over thousands of years, but lake levels can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A substantial portion of irrigation in some regions is effluent from water stored in crops, and when production exceeds production, available waters deplete. By some estimates, 30 percent of all water comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Seawater and waves
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, along with trace amounts of other elements. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important respects. It cools at a low temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its viscosity increases with decreasing temperature until it reaches the freezing point, before reaching a freezing maximum at a temperature above freezing. Water salinity in the high seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Black Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity of between 30 and 40%, is actually a sea.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of ocean and estuarine pools and create waves called waves. The variation from a location is the result of changes in the positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth as well as the effects of the rotation of the Earth and local bathymetry. The portion of the shoreline that is submerged at high tide and exposed during high tide as the intertidal zone is an important feature of sea ice ecology. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are very important for the proliferation of life. It plays this role by allowing the particles to interact in a way that ultimately leads to reactivity. All known forms of life come from water. Water is very important as a solvent in which many of the body’s metabolites are dissolved and as an integral part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of both anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from compounds (through forces requiring enzymatic chemical actions) to metabolize larger compounds (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins used for storage of compounds and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller products (e.g., sugars, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as raw materials for energy use or for other purposes). Without water, these unique exercises would be impossible. Water is key to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to release the hydrogen of water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen and CO2 (absorbed in air or water) combine to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such compounds and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to absorb solar energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also key to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a donor of hydrogen ions (H+, i.e., a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is assumed to be neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 under ideal conditions. The pH value of acids is less than 7 while bases are greater than 7. Aquatic organisms
The surface waters are full of life. The first life formed from water; all the fish are almost exclusively aquatic, and there are a variety of marine animals, including dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as insects, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants like kelp and algae grow in the water and are the foundation of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the foundation of the marine food chain. Aquatic invertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in many ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish, such as lung fish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, need to leave the land periodically to breathe. Some aquatic and bird organisms can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates are modified to live in poorly oxygenated waters such as respiratory tracts (see insect and spider siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrate life has evolved in the wetland, most are not very specialized for breathing in water. Implications for human civilization
Civilization has historically developed around rivers and streams; Mesopotamia, called one of the cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the banks of the Indus River and in the valleys that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian River Tiber. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong attribute their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting commercial boom. Islands with protected lakes, such as Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean water was and remains a major driver of human development. Health and dirt
Water suitable for humans is called potable or potable water. Non-drinking water can be made by filtration or distillation, or by many other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water not to be drunk but harmless to humans when used for bathing or bathing is called by various names other than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes called clean water, or "water safe for bathing Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often government controlled." by standards (usually 1 part per million (ppm) in drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine not previously treated with contaminants in wash water) The wash water can be satisfactorily disinfected with disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by ultraviolet light recycling of wastewater (usually the conversion of sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into reusable water for other purposes There are 2.3 billion people living in countries with water shortages, which means that each person receives less than 1700 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu.) of municipal wastewater ft) is produced globally every year Freshwater is a renewable resource, but pressures on its supply stem from unequal spatial and temporal distribution in the environment, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry Currently, about one billion people worldwide lack access to clean and affordable water set the Millennium Development Goals to halve the number of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation Progress towards that goal is inadequate, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030 , caused by waterborne diseases , the World Health Organization estimates that 90% of all municipal wastewater in developing countries still goes untreated into local rivers and lakes, also suffering from medium or high water quality and that country 17 withdraw more water each year than is recharged in their water systems This depletion not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also groundwater
Agriculture
The largest human water use is agriculture, including aquaculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all human water use. In the United States, 42% of the freshwater extracted for use is for irrigation purposes, but most of the "used" water (which is used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Freshwater availability is often taken for granted, especially in developing countries that have developed extensive water systems to collect, treat and deliver water, and dispose of wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water quality, leading to greater competition for sustainable water supplies, giving rise to the notion of oversupply. As populations and economies grow, water-thirsty meat consumption increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increase, new water scarcities may arise. An agricultural water use assessment was conducted in 2007 by the World Water Organization in Sri Lanka to determine whether the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed current water availability for agriculture worldwide and mapped areas affected by water scarcity. He noted that a fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion people, live in water-scarce areas where there is not enough water to meet all demand. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or human capacity makes it impossible for officials to satisfy water demand. The report notes that the food needed will be sufficient to produce in the future, but continuation of current food and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will scramble to increase production to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water consumption is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. Cotton, for example: 1 pound of cotton — the equivalent of two pairs of jeans — requires 10.9 cubic meters of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, water is consumed in regions already at risk of water scarcity. There has been tremendous damage to the environment: for example, the former Soviet Union diverted water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton, which was the main reason for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific principle
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the weight of a full quarter of a cubic meter of pure water, and the temperature of melted ice However, for efficiency a metallurgical standard was needed, a thousand times heavier decided, defined water at 0 °C (32 °F)—the most reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the rule and base their measurement on the maximum temperature of water, which was then measured as 4 °C (39 °F). ℃; °F)) is mainly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and a much smaller percentage of the heavy isotopes (deuterium). tend to have heavier isotopes than seawater So the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification
Water makes up, on average, 50–60% of the human body, depending on age, sex, and body size, although individuals may be anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends drinking 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gal) of water daily for adults and 2.7 liters (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the amount of work, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is consumed through foods or other beverages other than drinking straight water. Medical records recommend low fluid intake, typically between 1 liter of water by chance, with no additional needs due to dehydration during exercise or hot weather. A healthy bladder can produce 0.8 to 1 liter of fluid per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink too much water during exercise, which puts them at risk of dehydration, which can be fatal. Apparently, the popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" has no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking plenty of water, especially up to 500 mL (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Drinking plenty of water helps prevent constipation. The U.S. National Research Council's first general recommendation in 1945 read: "The ordinary rule of thumb for various people is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is in ready-to-eat foods." including sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for males and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for females, noting that water in the food provided accounted for about 19% of total water intake in this study. Pregnant and lactating women especially need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should receive 3 liters (12 cups), as large volumes of fluid are excreted especially during lactation. It has also been noted that in general about 20% of fluid intake comes from food, while the remainder comes from fluids and beverages (including caffeine). Water is lost from the body in many ways; by urine and faeces, sweat, and excretion of moisture in the breath. With dehydration and hot flashes, water loss will increase and daily water needs may increase as well. Humans need water that is less polluted. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some spices are acceptable and even delicious to enhance taste and provide needed electrolytes. The only large (relatively speaking) source of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Coli
Transportation vehicles
Chemical treatments
Water is commonly used in chemical processes as a solvent or solvent and rarely as a solvent or solvent. In organic solvents, water is the most commonly used solvent, exchanging many ions, as well as other polar substances such as ammonia and organic compounds that are closely related to water. In chemistry, it is generally not used as a metabolic agent, as it is poorly soluble and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. Still, these properties are sometimes interesting. Also, the acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. High-density water has been the subject of recent research. Oxygenated supercritical water efficiently incinerates organic waste. Exchange of heat
Water and steam are the most frequently used fluids for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both in cooling and heating systems. Cold water can even be naturally supplied from a lake or ocean. It is especially important to transport heat by evaporation and condensation because of its high latent heat of vaporization. Importantly, metals commonly found in industry such as iron and steel are readily oxidized by impure water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a vacuum between the boiler, steam boiler, and condenser), and as a refrigerant (used to replenish waste heat with water or to carry it to the refrigeration tank). In the United States, cooling systems are the largest use of water. In nuclear power applications, water can also be used as a neutrino moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a refrigerant. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as the removal of water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are better to stop a reaction and it is better to cover the nucleus with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high temperature and is relatively inactive, making it an excellent fire extinguisher. The evaporation of water carries heat to the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires containing oils and volatile organic compounds because many volatile organic compounds float on the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the risks of steam emissions, which can occur when water is applied to very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen emissions when some metals or hot carbons such as coal, coal, or coke graphite corrode. The intensity of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this incident did not come from the volcano, but from the reactor’s own cooling water system. A steam explosion occurred when the interior overheated, causing the water to turn into steam. It is possible that hydrogen attack occurred as a result of wave reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat with water that a fire hazard exists. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is an indigenous product, often shipped in paper bags. If these are immersed in water, they can ignite as their contents come into contact with water. Entertainment
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. These include swimming, diving, sailing, diving, and snorkeling. In addition, there are some ice sports such as hockey and ice skating. Riversides, beaches and pools are popular places to relax and have fun. Many people find the sound and sight of running water calming, and fountains and other fountains are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in tanks or ponds for display, entertainment and socialization. Humans also use water for winter sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, allowing the water to be at low temperatures as ice or to crystallize into ice. Water Resources
Water utilities provide drinking water and irrigation services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water sources include wells, rainwater tanks, irrigation systems, and water treatment plants, cisterns, cisterns, irrigation canals including old irrigation canals. Air hydrants are being developed. Drinking water is usually collected from streams, from boreholes (wells) made in the ground, or from lakes and rivers. Thus, the construction of more wells in suitable locations is a viable option for producing more water, assuming that aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water are stormwater. Water can be purified for human consumption. This can include removal of undissolved materials, dissolved materials and harmful pathogens. Popular methods include filtration with sand which removes only undissolved particles, while chlorine and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation serves all three purposes. There are more advanced methods, such as reverse osmosis. Bulk seawater desalination is a very expensive remedy for coastal droughts. Drinking water is distributed through the municipal water system, through delivery pipes or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water free of charge to the poor. Reducing consumption by using drinking (drinking) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for city-wide toilet flushing to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution may be the single biggest misuse of water; To the extent that a pond restricts other uses of water, it constitutes a waste of resources regardless of the benefit to the pond owner . Like other forms of pollution, this is not included in the standard calculation of market costs, presumably as externalities for which the market cannot be accounted for. In this way, others pay the price of water pollution, while private corporate profits are not redistributed to local communities suffering from the pollution. Chemicals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can adversely affect aquatic ecosystems when they accumulate and cannot be degraded. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Contamination of contaminated surfaces is addressed through a variety of preventive and therapeutic measures. Industrial Processing
Many industrial applications involve processes involving chemical solutions, immersion of solids in water or the use of water for melting and removal, or washing of materials or tools. Processes such as mining, chemicals, pesticides, papermaking, textiles, dyeing, printing, and cooling of power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated source of water, and often result in significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity generated from water. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a hydraulic system connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cost-effective, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is generated by the movement of water. The dam is usually built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water spray and ice cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It is highly efficient, extremely safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent exhausts from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, including steam boilers and heat exchangers, as well as being used as a chemical medium. Untreated water discharged from industrial processes is pollution. Pollution consists of emissions (chemical pollution) and cooling water emissions (thermal pollution). Industries require clean water for many applications and use a variety of treatment methods for irrigation and dewatering. Digital sectors, especially artificial intelligence, use a lot of water, so the development of AI could "threaten global and national water security". The dietary pattern
Boiling, roasting, and roasting are popular cooking methods, often involving food in its liquid or gaseous form, i.e. boiling. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays an important role in food science. Organic compounds such as salts and sugars in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water affect the evapotranspiration, as well as the atmospheric pressure, which in turn affects the altitude. The water boils at low temperatures with low atmospheric pressure applied at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kg of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg of water raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F) in the same way that increased solute concentration lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water use which affects chemical composition and bacterial growth in food. The work of water can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of the water in the ice to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water decrease water use—this is important to know because most bacteria stop when water use decreases. Microbial growth affects not only food safety but also storage and preservation. Water hardness is also a key factor in food processing and can be changed or treated with ion exchange system chemicals. It can have a profound effect on the quality of a product, as well as its standing in hygiene. Water hardness is classified according to the amount of calcium carbonate present in the water. Water is considered soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint Group in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters of water (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) but, the authors also make it clear that this is the global average and circumstances determine the amount of water used in beef production. The use of medicine in medicine
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization’s list of essential drugs. Accounting for the community
On the ground
Most of the Earth’s water is produced as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is driven by a strong external wind composed of gas and dust. When this emission eventually affects the surrounding gas, the shocks that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is readily released from this heated solid gas. A July 22, 2011 report described the discovery of an iceberg containing "140 billion times more water than Earth's total ocean" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery confirms that water has been present in the universe for its entire existence". Water was found in interstellar clouds inside the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies as well, since its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, most other planetary systems likely have similar features. Water vacation
Water is available as a break at:

Solar wind : in several detectable quantities
Mercury humidity: 3.4%, and plenty of water outside of Mexico
Venus atmosphere: 0.002% . Soil ventilation: ≈0.40% on absolute ventilation, typically 1–4% at the surface
Lunar wind: in small amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03% . The wind of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and of his month Europe
Saturnian atmosphere – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (submarine) . Uranus wind – minimum levels below 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – located in the deeper layers
Extraplanetary winds: HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, including those of Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar winds: not limited to cool stars and even observed in very hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Discs around stars: Includes those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Ji jilama
The Earth has liquid water, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes available in small quantities in March. Scientists believe that Enceladus has liquid water on Saturn’s moons, as a 10-mile-thick ocean, some 30–40 miles beneath Enceladus’ south polar pole, and on Titan, as a subsoil, probably mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a sea of ​​liquid underground water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a deposit between ice and high-pressure rocks. Ji jisuma
Water exists as on ice:

 March: under regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon systems: mainly as ice on Earth and in the Moon’s interior and volcanic rocks NASA reported the presence of water molecules through NASA’s Lunar Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization’s Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the planet Europa and also those of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Charon system
Comets associated with the Kuiper Belt and other Oort Cloud Objects
And it’s also likely there on this:

Mercury's Plants
The Tethys (Tethys).

Packages from other countries
Water and other volatiles probably make up the inner structure of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be in ionic water form where the molecules are broken into a suspension of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and still as dense as surface water where oxygen crystallizes but floats hydrogen ions roam freely in the oxygen layer. Sequencing of water and soils
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gas and solids, on land is crucial to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in a habitable Solar System; if it were slightly closer or slightly further away from the Sun (about 5%, or 8 million miles), the conditions for the three species to occur simultaneously would be less likely. Soil size also plays a role: its weight allows it to absorb some air, including air pollution. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases provide a secrecy effect that helps maintain a stable surface temperature at a constant level. The state of water on the surface of the earth depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the earth. If a soil is sufficiently dense, the overlying water may become solid even at high temperatures, due to high gravitational pressure, as observed for the outer soils Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Legislation, policies and challenges
Water policy is policy that affects water and water resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource throughout the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe water has improved over the past decade in all parts of the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world’s population will face water shortages. A report, released in November 2009, estimates that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to safe water since 1990. In developing countries, the percentage of people with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "water." accessible to all", but that access to it is hindered by mismanagement and corruption. Moreover, international initiatives to improve aid delivery, such as the Paris Aid Effectiveness Declaration, have not been as well taken up by donors in the water sector as they have been in education and health. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Water Assessment for Agriculture identified poor governance as one of the causes of some types of water shortages. Irrigation is a systematic process that involves irrigation. Water quality is primarily about identifying the processes that work best in a particular physical and environmental context. Examples have sometimes been made of trying to apply ‘handshakes’ that work in the developing world to developing parts and communities of the world. The Mekong River is one example; a review of global water management policy in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water concluded that complete and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also found that Cambodia’s proposed water policy was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable waterborne diseases often tied to a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report produced by UNESCO’s Global Water Assessment Program has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report indicates that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to properly managed sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been defined as endemic due to water shortages and pollution. The report estimates that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with scarce or severe water scarcity. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased at about 1% per year and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, tropical floods have quadrupled, while floods in north-mid latitudes have increased 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million.Organizations concerned with water safety include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Association. The International Water Agency undertakes projects with the aim of using water quality to reduce poverty. Relevant water treaties include the United Nations Convention on the Control of Desertification (UNCCD), the United Nations Convention against Pollution by Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. By 2026, the United Nations has declared humanity entered the "Water Bank" era as over 50% of lakes have shrunk since 1990, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of world population lives in landlocked countries, 4 billion people face water shortages for at least one month a year, and droughts cost $307 billion a year . He called for policies that conformed to reality rather than past legislation. In the culture
My religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (wusu) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or immersion) is the central Christian sacrament (where it is called baptism); it is also a part of the practice of other religions, such as Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, there are rituals in holy water for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can usually be performed after washing parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost any ritual to purify a person or place (e.g., in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water purified by a priest for baptism, to bless people, places, and objects, or as a means of driving away evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is venerated as the source of life. Philosophy (Philosophy). The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or fundamental element of the universe. Thales, identified by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the supernatural earth sprang from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is icosahedral – flowing easily compared to the cube-like shape of the earth. The theory of the four bodies associated water with slime, saying it was cool and good. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some of the most traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems use water as a metaphor. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest evolution is like (tao) water. Water's prosperity is seen in its universal beneficence, and in grasping effortlessly (behind it), the lowest point disliked by all men." la" and "Nothing in the world is softer and weaker than water, yet attacking what is fixed and strong, nothing can be put forward—for there is nothing (that can be) changed for." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter further elaborates on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and create the environmental qualities of the people of various regions of China through environmental water systems
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic stories as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and Russia note the dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth presents a related concept of magical waters supposedly preventing aging. Art and activism
In Irish author James Joyce's important modernist novel Ulysses (1922), chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called "the water song according to Richard E. Madtes." gathering and breaking, until they descend into a tranquil conclusion of 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" The song counts as one of the strangest passages in Ithaca, and, according to author Hugh Kenner, manages “the impossible into school textbooks.”. The motif of water writing reflects the book's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the song represents the concluding motif in the novel. This is the song sung in its entirety. What did Bloom, the water-lover, the swimmer, the water carrier back to the reef, appreciate in water?His passion: its democratic harmony and stability as a quest for his own right: its vastness in the Mercator geometry sea: its unplumbed depth in the Pacific Sundam trench over 8,000 fathoms: its waves and restlessness surface particles visiting in turn all points of its seaboard: the independence of its units: the variability of states of sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in nep and spring tides: : its undisputed power extending square leagues over every region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn : its first basis of stability in many worlds : its luteofulvous bed : its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all things including millions of tons of precious metals its restlessness in lakes and mountain tarns: its color shifts in tropical and subtropical regions: its transport consequences in continental lakes and oceanic rivers that meet their tributaries and coastal currents: coastal, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in ocean currents, drainage, artesian in wells, eruptions, waves, streams, freshets, spates, subterranean waters, pools, springs, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, delugees, cloudbursts: the great ahorizontal curve of its circumference: its mysterious streams, and snow hidden, indicated by rhabdomantic or hygrometric devices and eg well by hole in wall at Ashtown gate, air filling, snow removal: softness of composition, two hydrogen parts per oxygen part: good radiance: evaporation Dead Sea water: continuous penetration in runnels, gullies, imperfect dams, leaks on shipboard: . its properties to purify, quench thirst and fire, nourish plants: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: variable as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, snow, snow, hail : its power in rough springs: various forms in loughs and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of sea: its solidity in solids in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, . in rivers, with ships, in floating and possibly rough harbors: its potential in waves or streams falling from level to another level: its underwater animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) in numbers, if not actually, inhabitants of the world: it is as ubiquitous as it makes 90% of the human body: its the depth of the waterfalls in the lagoon, the antibiotics, the vanishing flower waters, the dwindling moon of stagnant pools. Photographer and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which underpinned a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever staged at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, a collective of artists who use water as their theme or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation, recognized by the UN as a human right, the charity WaterAid worked with ten actors to showcase the impact of clean water on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but rarely chemical name for water. The name has been applied to many lies and concoctions that mock scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983, when an August article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was about safety concerns about the product. Music
The word "water" has been used by many local Florida rappers as a catchphrase or adlib of sorts. Rappers who have done so include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs set in water in Florida, like 2023's Danny Towers' "Florida Water." See also the s
Observations of the
Related literature
The activities listed
Other studies
External connections

World Water Information page
FAO Aquatic Database, AQUASTAT
Water Hazards Schedule: Water Hazards Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Geological Survey (USGS) . Portal to World Bank Strategy, Operations and Related Documents on Water
American Water Association Posted on March 24, 2018 at Wayback Machine
Water is on the internet
Water Structure and Knowledge Fixed December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the world", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water Chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Union for the Properties of Water and Steam was registered on September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The molecule that made us is a 2020 PBS documentary