Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding that greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, worldwide distribution, and strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can be deposited as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, and seas and oceans make up most of the water (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water continuously moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in both saltwater and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and industrial products) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide range of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-Indo-European root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also related, via an Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian vodá (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless, odorless, almost colorless liquid with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is weak at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. of the state
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; also the liquid phase is H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools over certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does this while liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this respect. At a pressure of 1 atm it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes to become ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual contraction behavior and becomes denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface that floats on the flowing water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would disappear during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve significant interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below its boiling point, water can turn to vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation through a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by settling on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    c
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    c
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick amounts of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between densities such as gas and liquid; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures, it is freely miscible with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and precipitation of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals of hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally, and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a cubic, superionic phase of face ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to sense it. However, water from ordinary springs (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water in order to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily seen in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to swimming pools where the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of the lower tones of water means that short path length glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one of the materials commonly used for the windows of cuvettes with aqueous solutions. Fundamental vibrations of active Raman can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.627). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners, there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving fizzy drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its extremely high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the ocean and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% can be attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds cause high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with the dissolution of the formed hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by dissolving a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it – a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 pois at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in flowing water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by whales and humans to communicate and detect their surroundings (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water continuously moves through each of these regions in a water cycle that consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the earth or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean is returned to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as outflow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with a certain contribution of fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is at its lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight and create rainbows. Runoff water is often collected over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment by creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of several months or years when a region experiences a lack of water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average rainfall either because of its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs both as "stocks" and as "flows". Water can be stored in the form of lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. Of the total amount of global fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can vary on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A significant portion of the water supply in some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in supplies, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, supplies are depleted. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to its freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the great seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity level of 30 to 40%, is indeed a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced at a particular location are the result of the changing position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to develop larger molecules (eg, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuels for energy use or for other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, or proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and parts of their lives on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen in order to survive, and in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, must occasionally surface to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of Italy's Tiber River. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy accessibility by water and the consequent expansion of trade. Safe harbor islands like Singapore have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than drinking water or water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually follows government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most often sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which returns to circulation through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it are the result of naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Water Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide who do not have access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; some five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of them withdraw more water annually than is supplied through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies like rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Humans use water mostly for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water that is "wasted" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, treat and deliver water and dispose of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, leading to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty consumption increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries emerge, new water challenges are likely. The Agricultural Water Management Assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture globally and mapped locations suffering from water shortages. It has been found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas facing economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity prevents authorities from meeting water demand. The report found that in the future it will be possible to produce the necessary food, but that the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton — the equivalent of a pair of jeans — requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production is largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice." However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was needed. Therefore, the work was commissioned to precisely determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F) – a very reproducible temperature – the scientists decided to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which at the time was measured as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes usually contains fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Specification for Medium Ocean Water. For a drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. We ingest most of it through food or drink other than drinking clean water. The medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than they need while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original 1945 recommendation for water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The usual standard for different individuals is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The most recent Dietary Reference Intake Report by the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 of total water containing water) for women) 19% of total water intake in the survey. Namely, pregnant and lactating women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), and nursing mothers should consume 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that usually about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in several forms; urine and feces, sweating and exhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase, and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide needed electrolytes. The largest single (by volume) freshwater source suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water was also observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available from lakes or seas. It is particularly effective for heat transfer through evaporation and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by raw water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and a coolant (used to exchange waste heat into a body of water or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a sort of passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are favored to stop the reaction and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. Evaporation of water takes the heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also consider the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot indoor fires, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, creating water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused a flash of water in the steam. The hydrogen explosion may have resulted from a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are soaked, they can catch fire because their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lake shores, beaches and water parks are popular places for relaxation and recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature or in the form of ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater collection tanks, water networks and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground or drawn from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate places is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which removes only undissolved materials, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. The distribution of drinking water is carried out through communal water systems, delivered by tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs for free distribution of water to the needy. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water for human consumption only is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets across the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution may be the single greatest abuse of water; to the extent that a polluter restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into standard market cost accounting, as it is considered an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Pharmaceutical products consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is solved through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in an aqueous slurry, or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulp production, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydroelectric power is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectric energy is a cheap, renewable energy source that does not pollute the environment. Energy is obtained from the movement of water. Usually, a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used for water blasting and water jets. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various treatment techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of artificial intelligence can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many key roles in the field of food science. Dissolves such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Water solutions reduce water activity - this is important to know as most bacteria die at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using chemical ion exchange systems. This can dramatically affect product quality as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that intermediate factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In space
Much of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this warm dense gas. In the report on July 22, 2011. described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
The Moon's Atmosphere: In Traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and her month of Europe
Saturn's atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus – in traces below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - it is in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: They are not limited to cooler stars and have even been detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar discs: including those of more than half of T Taurus stars such as AA Taurus, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in Saturn's moons Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon System: Mostly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009 Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa, and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related objects of the Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud
And probably present on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatile substances probably make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely around the lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are vital for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present simultaneously would be far less likely. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to retain an atmosphere, including moisture from the air. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on the planet depends on the pressure of the environment, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is massive enough, water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy that is affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. This causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the last decades in almost all parts of the world, but about one billion people still do not have access to safe water, and over 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. The report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe source of water since 1990. It has been calculated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. hampered by bad governance and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been embraced by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited mismanagement as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a certain physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes are sometimes made in trying to 'map' what works in the developed world to locations and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is one example; a review of policies by the International Water Management Institute in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that detailed and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely undertaken. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it should have been. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has been providing decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation facilities. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water scarcity. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 dead and $650 million. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management undertakes projects aimed at effective water management for poverty reduction. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22, and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have been disrupted since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water, a city, a billion people, at least one drought 4 billion people experience water per month. it costs $307 billion a year. He called for policies that fit reality, not past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (Mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can in most cases be performed after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shintoism, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or area (eg in the ritual of misogyny). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of persons, places and objects or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and regarded it as the ylem or basic substance of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, was formed from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed the shape of water to be an icosahedron - which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in that it benefits all things, and in that it occupies, without effort (on the contrary), a low place that all men dislike. Hence (its path) is close to (the path of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, yet for attacking things that are solid and strong no there is nothing that can be preferred—for there is nothing (so effectual) for which it can be changed." Guanzi in "Shui di" 水地 elaborates the chapter on the symbol of water on further "water" water" and attributing the natural qualities of people from different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources. Folklore
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical water that supposedly prevents aging. Art and activism
In the landmark modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Hymn of Water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely "a monotonous series of facts," but its phrases, like their subject matter, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, shrink and break, until they settle into the calm repose of the concluding 'house, faded flower waters, stagnant flower waters,' stagnant ponds" of the most prominent passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, it achieves "incredible the feat of elevating into poetry all the clutter of false information that has accumulated in school books." The literary motif of water represents the theme of the novel about "eternal, eternal life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following hymn is quoted in full. What did Bloom admire in the water, the water lover, the water drawer, the water carrier returning to range? To its universality: to its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in seeking its own level: to its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: to its limitless depth in the Sundam Trench and the abyss of the Pacific0, its waterless wave0 overcoming the fatness of the Pacific surface particles that visit in turn all points of its coast: the independence of its units: the variability of the state of the sea: its hydrostatic stillness in silence: its hydrokinetic firmness in close and by the spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice-caps and arctic commercial sign and predifference 3 to 1 over the dry land of the globe: its undisputed hegemony extending in square leagues over the entire region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primordial basin: its luteofulvous trough: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of metal found in the slowest pretenerolas: capes: its alluvial deposits: its weight, volume and density: its undisturbedness in lagoons and mountain tarns: its gradation of colors in warm and temperate and cold zones: its ramifications in continental streams contained in lakes and drainage oceanic southern rivers and their tributaries in the north and their tributaries. currents: its violence in earthquakes, water-flows, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, fresh waters, showers, waves, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, cloudbursts, its vast clouds and clouds: its vast currents in the spring: latent moisture, detected by rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments and illustrated by a well of a hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, the saturation of air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, the two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent of oxygen: its curative power in all waters: its water buoy penetrates the water. streams, ravines, inadequate dams, ship leaks: cleansing, thirst- and fire-quenching properties, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and model: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: strength and power in rigid forms and hydrating waters of bays and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and mints and tidal estuaries and backwaters: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, glaciers: its obedience in the operation of hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, power stations, in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and raking docks: its potentiality arises from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its undersea fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, inhabitants of the world: its omnipresence as which makes no influence of the human body: lake marshes, vermin, faded flower waters, stagnant ponds in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, which anchored the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Long, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an environmental collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a number of hoaxes and hoaxes mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when the first April article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World water data site
FAO comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
Timeline of Water Conflicts: Database of Water Conflicts Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Science (USGS)
Strategy portal, World Bank work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019 Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary