Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Water is often referred to as the "universal solvent" due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity due to its small molecular size. Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water constantly moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff and usually reaches the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and households. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also the basis of many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also for Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod'we-or, swed'ixed form *wod'we, swed'ixed).; Also cognate via an Indo-European root to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода? (water), Irish uisce and Albanian vâj. History
On Earth
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless, odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tinge. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. of states
Water, along with the oxidant, is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so when liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of the water decreases. As it freezes to become ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create tremendous pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of shrinking and densifying as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and forms ice on the surface that floats on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below and prevents it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would die during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve a remarkable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or condenses to steam at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation in a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by settling on aerosol particles or an ice core. In the freeze-drying process, the food is frozen and then stored under low pressure, so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    in
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    in
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          in
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 a 
  
    
      
        
          in
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances expand in volume when melted, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting point decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the gas phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at an altitude of 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gas- and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of the surrounding water) are density sensitive. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms additional crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty of them have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When ice is sandwiched between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral waters) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate drinking water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. Apparent color intensity increases with depth of the water column according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to the pool, where the source of light is sunlight reflecting off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used for aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that short path length glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is needed. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the materials commonly used for the windows of cuvettes with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, using a 1 cm cuvette. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below a depth of 1,000 meters (3,300 ft). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than the refractive index of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64 to 1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the oxygen-centered tetrahedron. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – carbon dioxide gives fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
A water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules due to its polarity. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transferring it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O–H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% can be attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with solvation of the formed hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity that increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as table salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility under normal conditions ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (roughly 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers glaciology, inland waters limnology, and ocean distribution oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The mass of water found on, below, and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs at Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water constantly moves through each of these areas in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the atmosphere and transpiration of land plants and animals into the atmosphere. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as outflow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation at a rate of 119 Tt per year on earth takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the Earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to create rainbows. Runoff water is often collected through watersheds flowing into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water supplies. This occurs when an area receives consistently below average rainfall either due to its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural sources of water that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A substantial part of the water supply for some regions is water withdrawn from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, reserves are depleted. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the large seas ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity level between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of seawater and estuarine water bodies, creating oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the spread of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately enable replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve, and as an essential component of many of the body's metabolic processes. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via enzymatic chemical reactions requiring energy) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to make smaller molecules (eg glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids) to be used as fuels for energy use or for other purposes. Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is the basis for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to split hydrogen from water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy, reforming water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor, such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values lower than 7, while bases have values higher than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to surface regularly to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in aquatic environments, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of Italy's Tiber River. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the subsequent expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports like Singapore flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water has been and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for bathing or bathing is called by different names than potable or potable water and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most often sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic meters) of water per year. Worldwide, 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced annually. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressure to access it results from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and a growing population. Currently, nearly a billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries with about a third of the world's population also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of them extract more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, accounts for up to 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn is used for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and deliver water and dispose of wastewater. However, increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are raising concerns about water problems, leading to increasing competition for permanent water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries emerge, new water challenges are likely. The Agricultural Water Management Assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Institute in Sri Lanka to determine whether the world has enough water to feed a growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically water-scarce areas, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the required food in the future, but that continuing today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industry and cities will look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton – the equivalent of a pair of jeans – requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter and at the temperature of melting ice". However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was required. Therefore, work was commissioned on the exact determination of the weight of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the stated definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the researchers decided to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which at the time was measured to be 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters of water for adult men and 2.7 liters for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking pure water. The medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, barring special requirements due to fluid loss during exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" appears to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original 1945 Food and Nutrition Board recommendations for water intake from the US National Research Council read: "The usual norm for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." The latest Dietary Reference Intake Report from the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water intake in the survey foods, stating that total dietary water intake contained approximately 9% water. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups) because especially large amounts of fluid are lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that typically about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in various forms; through urine and faeces, perspiration and exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss increases and daily fluid requirements may increase. People need water with little impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The single largest freshwater source (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it poorly dissolves the reactants and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Still, these features are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective for heat transfer through the evaporation and condensation of water because it has a large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are more quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. Almost all thermal power plants use water as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or to remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest water users. In nuclear power, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is advantageous to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure sufficient cooling. Fire Considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also consider the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose water to form water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water did not come from extinguishing the fire, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused the water to turn into steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metal and alkaline earth metal oxides, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are soaked, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for show, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater cisterns, water mains and water treatment facilities, water reservoirs, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, obtained from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is thus a possible way to produce more water, provided the aquifers can supply adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require treatment for human consumption. This can include the removal of suspended solids, dissolved solids and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. The distribution of drinking water is realized through municipal water supply systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using potable (potable) water for human consumption only. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the biggest single misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into standard market cost accounting, as it is conceived as an externality for which the market cannot be responsible. Other people thus pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local residents, the victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous suspensions, or using water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling consume large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water power. Hydropower comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built on a river and creates an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water jetting and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent saw blades from overheating or overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, apart from being used as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various cleaning techniques for both water supply and water discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI may "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and steaming are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many essential roles in the field of food science. Solutes, such as salts and sugars, found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacteria will stop growing at low water activity levels. The growth of microbes affects not only the safety of food, but also its preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or adjusted using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality and also play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (US). According to a report published by Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and the amount of water used in beef production is determined by circumstances. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In space
Much of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually hits the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the scientists, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar components. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and abundant water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in ice only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including the disks of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on Saturn's moons Enceladus as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean approximately 30–40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus and Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks In September 2009, NASA announced the detection of water molecules by the NASA Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 probe. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa as well as Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And is also probably present on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably make up much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, in which the molecules break up into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and the habitability of planets
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or farther from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to maintain an atmosphere, including atmospheric moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is given by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, Politics and Crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damages biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion people do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report released in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, water demand will exceed supply by 50% in some developing regions of the world. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe source of water. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good management of water resources is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a specific physical and socio-economic context. Attempts to apply "designs" that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world have sometimes gone wrong. The Mekong River is one example; an International Water Institute review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that one child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases that are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, created within the framework of the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided tools for the development of sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet water use has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased 2.5-fold. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Water conservation organizations include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute deals with projects aimed at effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day is on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-scarce countries, 4 billion people experience at least $3 billion a month and a year of water scarcity. He called for policies that fit reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that involve ritual washing (washing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersing or dousing) a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu) if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or area (e.g. in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as the ylus, or basic substance, of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, believed that the Earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron—it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm because it is cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest perfection is like (that) water. The perfection of water is manifested in that it benefits all things, and that without striving (on the contrary) it occupies a low place that is disliked by all men. Therefore (its way) is close to (tao) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet for attacking things that are solid and strong there is nothing to prefer it—for there is nothing (so effective) to change it to.' Guanzi further elaborates and attributes water in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter on the nature of water, which is the natural symbolism of water. the qualities of people from different Chinese regions to the nature of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The fountain of youth represents a related concept of magical waters said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's landmark modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely "a monotonous string of facts" but rather its phrases, as well as their subject matter, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they recede into the calm calm of the final "plague fens, faded flowery waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon" and the most remarkable passage in the waning moon of Hughc." Kenner succeeded in "the improbable feat of elevating to poetry all the jumble of information that has accumulated in school textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the entire hymn quoted. What did Bloom, the lover of water, the drawer of water, the carrier of water returning to the mountains, admire in water? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projections: its uncovered depth in the Sundam Trench in the Pacific exceeding 8,000 restless surface points on its waves: the restless reaches of its waves on the ocean the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic calm in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in deep and spring of the tides: its decline after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice sheets, arctic and antarctic regions: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3 to 1 preponderance over its disputed area in dry land the entire area below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its prehistoric basin: its luteofulvous bottom: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the rarest metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and downwards of its promontories: its weight and volume of alluvium and land: and land of marsh: its gradation of colors in arid and temperate and freezing zones: its auto branching in streams with continental lakes and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial currents: its violence in sea shocks, water gargoyles, artesian springs, torrents, artesian wells ground surges, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, whirlpools, floods, inundations, cloudbursts: its extensive circumferential and horizontal curve: its concealment in springs and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric gate, air hole, and saturation hole at Ashtown, the distillation of dew: its simplicity of composition, the two basic components of hydrogen with one component of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetration in canals, ravines, deficient dams, leaks in ships: its properties for cleansing, quenching and extinguishing fire, nourishment in the paragon of its metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and gulfs and gulfs and bays and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal seabergs, its solid glaciers and estuaries and tidal ice floes: its obedience in working with hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleachers, tanneries, submersibles mills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its potential derived from continuous tides or water courses falling from level to level: its submarine fauna (if not Phohoanacustic) literally floristic, literally floristic Globe: its ubiquity constitutes 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its effusion in lake marshes, marshes, marshes faded flower water, stagnant pools by the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at St. John the Divine in New York, anchoring the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Long, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an environmental collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact clean water has on people's lives. Parody of carbon monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a number of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983, when the first April Fool's story appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was based on concerns about the safety of the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done it include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World water data page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal of the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and related publications
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary