Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, which is a polar molecule, has strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When broken down, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. Steam or water vapor is the gaseous state of water. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for most of the water volume (approximately 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (which contain ice and liquid water suspended in air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), evaporation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by people goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by boat through seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German Wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European, from the form Proto-Indo-European, *x-woded'; 'wet'). Also cognate, through the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from the English place 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish åður, and Albanian våj. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains different dissolved substances, and special steps are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas in normal terrestrial conditions. States
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and precipitation (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does so while liquid. It is also unusual in that it becomes much less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can have a notable interaction. Phase transition
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or condenses as steam at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor on its surface through evaporation (evaporation through the entire liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and precipitation also occur on surfaces. For example, ice is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the process of freeze-drying, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface is sublime. The melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship gives a good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

place 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 a 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting pressure can occur under sufficiently dense volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 metres. High altitude cooking takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at one point known as the triple point, where all three phases can co-exist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); this is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At higher temperature and pressure the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas- and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are density sensitive. For example, for suitable pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Periods of ice and water
The usual form of ice on the Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with a cubic crystalline symmetry, Ic ice, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When squeezed between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is a result of the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can feel the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many soluble substances that can give it various tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to evaluate the amount of water to drink in order to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is clearly blue due to absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water set against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In terms of nature, the color can also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the higher intensity of the lower water ultrasound means that glass cuvettes with a short path can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent at around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one material that is commonly used for the cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The fundamental Raman-active vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches the parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. In the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter providing the fuse of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulphides and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a molecule of water in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulphide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds at about 23 kJ/mol (compared to an O–H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, 90% is estimated to be electrostatic, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds cause water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, depend on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process known as electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10 - 10 Pa - 1 in normal conditions. Even in seas at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (around 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property used by whales and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a type of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. Hydrography is the study of the distribution of water. Hydrogeology is the study of the distribution and movement of groundwater, glaciology is glaciers, limnology is inland waters and oceanography is the distribution of oceans. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The combined mass of water found on, under and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate water volume (total world water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. The majority of water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and faulting patterns are affected by the pressure of this groundwater. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, ground water, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle which includes the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the sky and falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration that occurs in land masses also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Rainfall, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes many forms: rain, snow and hail are most common, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface starts to increase. Condensed water in the air can also bend sunlight to produce a rainbow. Runoff often collects over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when a piece of land, usually low-lying land, is covered with water which occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences a deficit in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives precipitation that is consistently below average either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that could be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapour, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of the water storage period varies greatly: some aquifers contain water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can vary seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant proportion of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when the money raised exceeds the refund, the stock decreases. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater abstraction, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, along with smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as temperature drops to freezing, instead of reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall in local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced in a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth together with the effects of the Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are essential for the growth of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow reproduction. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the earth are full of life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; Almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and portions on land. Plants such as seaweed and algae grow in the water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in various ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungs, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to come to the surface from time to time to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Historically civilization has flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and tributaries that flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are in part due to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water that is fit for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit to drink but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by different names other than potable water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine with impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which is recirculated by the natural hydrologic cycle, but pressures over access to it arise from the uneven natural distribution in space and time, increasing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and growing populations. Currently, almost a billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal was uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of ensuring universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are fatal; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater remains untreated into local rivers and streams. Around 50 countries, with around a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these extract more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The stress not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most significant human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawals are used for irrigation, but the vast majority of "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying and delivering water, and disposing of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for stable water resources, leading to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all requirements. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing with today's food production trends and the environment would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase production to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a metre, and at the temperature of melting ice". However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, was needed, the kilogram. So work was commissioned to determine exactly the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram indicates water at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - a very reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the maximum water density, measured at the time as 4 ° C (39 ° F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water contains mainly the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or drinks other than drinking straight water. Medical literature favors drinking less, usually 1 liter of water for the average male, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than they need when exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at meals, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "A common standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest US National Research Council dietary reference intake report generally recommended, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water intake in the survey for women, indicating that approximately 19% of the total water included in the survey including the total water taken. In particular, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men, on average, consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as large amounts of fluid are lost during nursing. It was also noted that around 20% of water intake usually comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (caffeinated included). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and faeces, through sweating, and by exhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. Humans need water without many impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutions are acceptable and even desirable for enhancing taste and providing needed electrolytes. The single largest freshwater resource (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical materials
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these properties are sometimes desirable. Diels-Alder reactions were also accelerated by water. Supercritical water has been a recent research topic. Oxygen-rich supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, for cooling and heating. Even cold water can be naturally available from a lake or the sea. It is particularly effective at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange the waste heat to a body of water or carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides some measure of passive safety, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred for preventing reaction and it is best to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in fire fighting should also consider the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or charcoal graphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this fire-fighting incident did not come from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the water core caused it to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially some alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a widely produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these are impregnated, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Leisure
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sport. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy leisure. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowboarding or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, cisterns for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected in wells, drawn from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. So building more wells in sufficient places is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can supply sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This can involve removing undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is delivered through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy free of charge. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for drinking is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to save fresh water resources. Water pollution is perhaps the single biggest misuse of water; to the extent that a polluter restricts other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other forms of corruption, this does not enter into the standard calculation of market costs, as it is considered externalities that the market cannot account for. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals that are consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, the suspension of solids in water slurries or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, which require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate power. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water energy. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting source of renewable energy. The energy is supplied by the motion of water. Typically, a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Water under pressure is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in cooling machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and the heat exchanger, as well as being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of AI "may threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often involve immersing food in water or its gaseous, steamy state. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many vital roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as is air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in lower water activity water - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and environmental factors determine the amount of water used to produce beef. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organisation's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The water seen is rapidly produced in this warm dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a huge cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water has been common in the universe for almost all of its existence". Water has been found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. There is probably plenty of water in other galaxies too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over a full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's Atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even found in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circular discs: including some more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported that NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper detected water molecules aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's Moons: the surface of Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon System
Comets and other associated Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it is also likely to be present on:

the poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably comprise many of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and the planetary habitat
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer to the Sun or further away from it (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin atmospheres or no atmosphere at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics that is affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource across the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the last decades in almost every part of the world, but around one billion people still do not have access to safe water and over 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability by 2025. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. It is calculated that the proportion of people in developing countries who have access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. The United Nations report in 2006 states that access to water is sufficient " mismanagement and pollution. In addition, Global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted as effectively by donors in the water sector as they are in education and health, leaving multiple donors working on potentially overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for some forms of water scarcity informal for making decisions related to water management. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to developing world settings and contexts. The Mekong river is one example; a review by the International Water Management Organization of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to potable water and that 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been described as endemic, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased by around 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute runs projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the period of "Water Bankruptcy" because more than 50% of great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-secure countries, 4 billion people experience water scarcity per year, and at least $03 billion experience water scarcity the year. He called for policies that match reality rather than the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (wetting) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or immersion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to cleanse a person or an area (e.g., in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, sacred water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless persons, places, and objects, or as a means to prevent evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, came out of the water. Thales, a monk, further believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that water is shaped like an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as being cold and damp. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's translation of the Dao De Jing in 1891 says, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears to be that it is beneficial to all things, and occupies it, without striving (to the contrary),) the low place that every man hates. Therefore (its way) is close to (the way of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, and yet for attacking solid and strong things there is nothing that can have the priority - for there is nothing (so effective) that can be changed for it." Guanzi in the chapter “Shui di” 水地 further elaborates on the symbol of natural loyalty which declares “water” on natural loyalty. from people from different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are said to be anti-aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their text, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the quiet silence of the 'plague fens, water of faded flowers, dead pools' in the most amazing part of the hymn, which is considered one of the most remarkable of waning moons. according to the critic literary Hugh Kenner, accomplishes "the improbable feat of raising to poetry all the clutter of knowledge that has accumulated in school books." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, changeable life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn that Bloom admired, water-drawer, water-carrier to the field? Its universality: its democratic equality and consistency to its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its infinite depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific surpassing the 8,000 remains of its waves and all its superficial points of stillness visiting all its waves. coast: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic calmness in calm: its hydrokinetic magnifier in ebb and flow: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar, arctic and antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial significance: its excess of extension 3 to the square world: its dominance of 3 to the square world extending over the earthquake: alliances over the whole region below the prehistoric tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primitive basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow downward erosions of peninsulas and headlands: its alluvial density and alluvial deposits: its volume and lagoon deposits high: its volume and lagoon deposits high: its weight and lagoon deposits and its alluvial volume; tarns: its gradation of colors in the abundant and temperate and frozen zones: its vehicular effects in continental lakes containing confluent oceanic flowing streams and rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf flow, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in barrages, waterspouts, artesian springs, fresh lands, torrents, torrent, torrent, torrent of watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, deluges, gusts of clouds: its vast surrounding horizontal curve: its secrecy in wells, and hidden moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well by the walls of the ash, the well by the ash hole; the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing qualities: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its continuous penetration in runways, ruts, inadequate dams, spills on board ship: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, barb, barb, barb, barb and vegetation. as vapor, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in canes and bays and gulfs and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its firmness in glaciers, its ice flows, its hydraulic flows, its ice flows, its solidity in glaciers, its icebergs, its hydraulic flows. dynamos, electric powerhouses, bleach works, tanneries, scotch mills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and scrapings: its potential arising from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not, literally all its inhabitants: if not, in literally, all its inhabitants. human body: the toxicity of its effluent in marshes, plague marshes, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition to ever appear in the Cathedral, it included over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collection of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark 10 years since the United Nations declared access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but often used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that feign scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story included safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many rappers from Florida as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to the water in Florida, like Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
Addresses
Works cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of water science (USGS)
Gateway to the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary