Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is the main constituent of the currents, lakes and oceans of the Earth. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding that contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of water droplets and ice in suspension, their solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is water vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water are found as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (made up of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continuously moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. Approximately 70% of the fresh water used by humans is used for agriculture. Fisheries in salt and freshwater bodies have been, and continue to be, an important source of food for many parts of the world, contributing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also critical to many sports and other forms of entertainment, including swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *form *wod-o,' suffixed with water *;'; Also related, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian vạj. history
On Earth
properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless, odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tinge. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the 'solvent of life' - in fact, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. states
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names of the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does this while in liquid form. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and turns into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, rupturing pipes and fracturing rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms that reside in the lakes would die during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat throughout the planet's oceans. magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a remarkable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 i 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, i 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures deep in the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
In a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be compressed or expanded gradually between gas and liquid densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a superionic, face-centered ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the gel forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, ordinary spring water (including mineral water) tends to have many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the c region. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are shades of O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected by the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, since the higher intensity of the lower tones in water means that short-path glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are located near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, the latter giving the gas in carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. Also, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also account for its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds in water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to an O–H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Autoionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH–, in combination with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it, a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 to 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km per 1 kHz), a property that cetaceans and humans use for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water on Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of continental waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are at the heart of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and on the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Mantle water is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves perpetually through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, of water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the land or ocean. runoff from the land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor to land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff water often accumulates on watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment by creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat terrain for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a deficiency in water supply. This happens when a region receives consistently below-average precipitation, either because of its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as 'stocks' and 'flows'. Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water remains stored is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A substantial part of the water supply in some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater abstractions, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. Water salinity in the main seas varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of 30-40%, is actually a salt lake.) Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds and generate smaller molecules (eg glucose, fatty acids and amino acids for use as fuels for energy consumption or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate hydrogen from water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture energy from the sun and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, i.e. a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered to be neutral, with a pH (the negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values below 7 while bases have pH values above 7. Aquatic Life Forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as algae and seaweed grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the oceanic food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a number of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, need to come to the surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Historically, civilization has flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was totally dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC - c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber River. Great metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made by filtration or distillation, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by other names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm unreacted chlorine with impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (more commonly wastewater, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cubic feet) of municipal wastewater is produced each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it are the result of its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Today, almost one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal was uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still not treated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also experience moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies like rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most important human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for water collection, purification and supply, and wastewater disposal. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are raising concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increase, new water challenges are likely. In 2007 the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted an assessment of water management in agriculture to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped the places suffering from water scarcity. He discovered that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas with economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity means that authorities are unable to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continued current food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton, the equivalent of a pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter, and at the melting temperature of ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was required. That is why a work was commissioned to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Although the decreed definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F), a highly reproducible temperature, the scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the highest water density temperature, which was measured at the time to be 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined exactly as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. River and lake water tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna standard ocean medium water specification. to drink
The human body contains, on average, between 50 and 60% water, depending on age, sex and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or beverages other than drinking plain water. The medical literature favors a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at meals, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "A normal standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." The US National Research Council's latest Dietary Reference Intakes report generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, approximately 19% of the water contained in the food, approximately. the survey Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should consume 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during lactation. He also points out that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated ones). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and faeces, perspiration and the exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and to provide necessary electrolytes. The largest fresh water resource (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washed
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less frequently as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reagents well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and for heating. Even cold water may be available naturally from a lake or the sea. It is particularly effective at transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are more quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or to evaporate it in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping a reaction are favored and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Considerations about fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of the water takes the heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on oil and organic solvent fires because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or graphite coke, break down the water, producing gaseous water. The power of these explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused the water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If they get soaked, they can ignite as their contents react with water. recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of running water soothing, and fountains and other running water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for show, fun and company. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature, either in the form of ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including ancient aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, drawn from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can supply adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Abundant seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, delivered by tanker or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no cost. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water for human consumption only is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution may be the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs, conceived as externalities that the market cannot account for. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions with chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries or water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in the generation of energy. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectric power. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting source of renewable energy. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. A dam is usually built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water coming out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn the generators. Pressurized water is used in water cutters and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used in the cooling of machinery to prevent overheating or prevent the saw blades from heating up. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI may "threaten global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as is air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity; this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be altered or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as playing a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material finally impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is produced rapidly in this hot, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Water probably also exists in abundance in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ices; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere: only in ices; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus: in traces below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere: It is in the deepest layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: They are not limited to cooler stars and are even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar discs: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on Saturn's moons Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30 to 40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. ice water
Water is present as ice in:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects related to the Kuiper belt and the Oort cloud
And it is also likely to be present in:

Mercury dust
Thetis

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deepest layers may be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float without oxygen. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when they are present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the environmental pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes impacts on health and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe drinking water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments unable to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made trying to apply "plans" that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; an International Water Management Institute review of the policies of six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations related to water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water failure" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, and a water shortage costs at least one month per billion people per year. 307 billion dollars per year. He called for policies that match reality rather than the rules of the past. In culture
religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or affusion) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, such as Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Also, in many religions, such as Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places and objects, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. philosophy
The Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and considered it an ilema or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron, which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in benefiting from all things, and in occupying, without striving (to the contrary), the low place which is disliked by all men. Therefore (its path) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and strong, there is nothing that can prevail against them, because there is nothing (so effective) that can be exchanged for them." attributing natural qualities of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Consider the Grimm's fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as "the water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous string of facts," but its phrases, like its theme, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, cluster and break, until they sink into the quiet calm of the conclusion of "pestilential marshes, faded flower-water, stagnant ponds in the moon's waning passage." Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of elevating to poetry all the clutter of information that has accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal and changing life." The following is the hymn quoted in full. Water-loving Bloom of water, bearer of water returning to the range?His universality: his democratic equality and his constancy in his own level-seeking: his immensity in the ocean of Mercator's projection: his plunged depth in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 fathoms: his restless surface of his particles visiting their resting-points. coast: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in calms: its hydrokinetic turgidity in tides and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its barrenness in the circumpolar, Arctic, and Antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3 to 1 preponderance of dry land over its undisputed place undisputed in the world leagues throughout the region below the subequatorial Tropic of Capricorn: the centuries-old stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and retain in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and descending promontories: its alluvial deposits: its high and impermeable weight and volume: its gradation of colors in the torrid and temperate and cold zones: its vehicular ramifications in the continental lake contained streams and fluvial rivers confluent with its tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf stream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, torrents, fresh waters, wetlands water separations, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, cloud-bursts: its vast circum-terrestrial and horizontal curve: its secret in springs and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments and exemplified by the well by the hole of the city of ashes: the distillation of air on the wall of saturation, the simplicity of distillation. its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetration in canals, ravines, inadequate dams, leaks on board: its cleansing properties, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing its vegetation as a paradigm and metamorphoses: fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and guts and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minchs and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: their solidity in glaciers, hydraulic hydrauice, hydraulic hydrauice. mills, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleach, tanneries, tanneries: their utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and recorders: their potentiality derivable from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: their underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, literally, photophobes: their numerical inhabitants, if not their inhabitants). ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential marshes, faded flower waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at St. John the Divine in New York City, who founded a year-long cathedral initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever seen at the cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. On the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the declaration of access to water and sanitation as a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a number of hoaxes and jokes that poke fun at scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
notes
References
Works cited
More reading
External links

World water data page
FAO comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal of the World Bank's strategy, work and associated publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water in the network
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary