Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, is subject to strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy or be an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity in relation to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface is relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made up of suspended drops of water and ice, their solid state. When it is finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water are found as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic * watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European * form * wod-or,' suffixed 'of water'; It is also related, through the Indo-European root, to the Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from the ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from the English 'hydro-'), the Russian вода́ (vodá), the Irish uisce and the Albanian vâj. History
On Earth
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogen, is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does so while liquid. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0°C (32°F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms that reside in the lakes perish during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets can achieve a remarkable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as bubbles). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or an ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when they melt, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under large enough volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 ° C (401 ° F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100°C (212°F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to obtain the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to decrease cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas and liquid densities; its properties (which are very different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and many others are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. The taste and smell
Pure water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually have a lot of dissolved substances that can give different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue because of the absorption of light in the c region. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of water placed on a pure white background, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are shades of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This is also applied, for example, with a pool when the light source is the sun reflected by the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, since the greater intensity of the lower tones of water means that glass cuvettes with a long short path can be employed. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material that is in common use for the windows of cuvettes with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach it. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass 1.6 (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers the fizz. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonds
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulphide. They also explain its exceptional specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate, accumulating heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to an O-H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is shared by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydroxide hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-, in combination with the solvation of hydroxide hydroxide and the resulting hydroxide. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more input energy than the heat released from the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility varies from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water only suffers a decrease in volume of 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10–3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that is exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline-earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of underground water is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, inland water is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic kilometers). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as the ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as ground water in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Underground water is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this underground water affects the fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the surface of the Earth, water is important in the chemical and physical processes of the climate. Water, and to a lesser extent, but still significant, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the surface of the earth. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which constitute the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, ground water, surface water, ground water and plants. Water moves perpetually through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or the ocean. the runoff from the land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor that is found mainly in the ocean returns to it, but the winds bring the water vapor on land at the same rate as the runoff in the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while the evaporation and transpiration that happens in the land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on earth, has many forms: the most common is rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that are condensed when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, just before dawn and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. The flow of water often collects above water basins that flow into rivers. Through erosion, the river shapes the environment by creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, drought is an extended period of months or years when a region notices a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average rainfall either due to its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful for humans, for example, as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, ground water or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing in wet ones. A substantial fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decrease. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, which cause groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important aspects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature at the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake). Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of sea that is subject to high tide and exposed to low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (for example, starch, triglycerides and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids and amino acids to be used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of the sun, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture energy from the sun and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen donor (H+, i.e. a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as algae and seaweed grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in various ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the major rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The first Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC - c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their ease of accessibility via water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking, but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing, is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing." Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is very technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of chlorine that have not reacted with impurities for bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological condition with chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly wastewater, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people who reside in water-scarce nations, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressures on access to it result from the uneven natural distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and the growing population. Currently, almost one billion people in the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people in the world without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal was uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is not treated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these extract more water annually than is recharged from their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface fresh water bodies like rivers and lakes but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most substantial human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for up to 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for the collection, purification and distribution of water, and the removal of waste water. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures increase concerns about water problems, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and the economy continue to grow, the consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands increase for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped places suffering from water scarcity. He found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all the demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it could produce the necessary food in the future, but that the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water shortages. Significant environmental damage was caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was needed. The worker was therefore tasked with precisely determining the mass of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram specified water at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - a highly reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was measured at the time as 4 ° C (39 ° F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it also affects the properties of water. River and lake water tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is ingested through food or drinks other than plain water. Medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for an average male, excluding extra requirements for fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than is necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that "a person should consume eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtime, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the United States reads: "An ordinary standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest Dietary Reference Intake report from the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, about 19% of the water supplied in the total water in the food. the survey. In particular, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweating, and through the exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exercise and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may increase as well. Humans need water with little impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide the necessary electrolytes. The largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. wash
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, which dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not generally used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. In addition, the acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been a research topic. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Fresh water can also be naturally available from a lake or the sea. It is especially effective at transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water because of its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or take it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are favored to stop a reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing fluid. Evaporation of water carries heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents, because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot coal such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from the fire, but from the water cooling system of the reactor. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused the water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion can occur as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline-earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If they are soaked, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water to be soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, entertainment and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including water treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting tanks, water supply networks, and water purification plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is thus a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are filtered with sand which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tank delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy without charge. Reducing use by using drinking water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water can be the biggest waste of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits the other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, instead of the benefits for the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs, being conceived as an externality for which the market cannot account. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have negative effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater are typically treated in water treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectric power. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water coming out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water jet and water cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in the cooling of machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent overheating of saw blades. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and the heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Contamination includes discharged solutes (chemical contamination) and discharged coolant water (thermal contamination). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or in its gaseous state, steam. The water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays several critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is in turn affected by altitude. Water boils at the lowest temperature with the lowest air pressure found at the highest altitude. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. The solutes in the water also affect the activity of the water which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in the food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower than water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be altered or treated with a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, and also play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of cow requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10 ^ 3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10 ^ 3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in kind
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this flow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is quickly absorbed into this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapors
Water is present as vapor in:

Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1-4% at the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deepest layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and also detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar discs: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists think that liquid water is present in Saturn's moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as an underground layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. ice water
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice caps on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects of the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud
And it is also probably present on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably make up much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deepest layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float without oxygen. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are vital for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or further away from the sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that would allow all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to maintain an atmosphere, including air humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin atmospheres or no atmosphere at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water in a planet depends on the environmental pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed on exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource in the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but about one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, the demand for water will exceed the supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. hampered by poor management and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without empowerment to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as a reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. We have sometimes gone wrong trying to apply "schemas" that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact analysis are rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid stated that a child died every 15 seconds from easily preventable waterborne diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for the development of sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to excessive consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the last 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water failure" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, at least one billion people experience, 4 billion of people per year. $307 billion a year. He called for policies that matched reality rather than past norms. In culture
The religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that incorporate ritual washing (ablutions) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also a part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Also, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example, in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and considered it as a ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associates water with phlegm, as cold and wet. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. The translation of James Legge in 1891 of the Dao De Jing says: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its benefit all things, and in its occupation, without effort (on the contrary), the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and even to attack things that are firm and strong there is nothing that can take precedence - because there is nothing (so effective) by which it can be changed." attributing natural qualities of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" figures in Germanic and Slavic tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as "the water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its sentences, like its subject, "ebb and flow, stretch and swell, meet and break, until they subside into the calm quiescence of the conclusion "Pestilential funs, faded flower water, stagnant stagnant in the most waning passage of the monkey's passage". Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves the improbable act of elevating to poetry all the information of footling that has accumulated in the school books admired Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, watercarrier that returned to the range? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its own level in the search of its own level: its vastness in the ocean of the projection of Mercator: its depth removed in the Sundam pit of the Pacific that exceeds 8,000 fathoms of its particles visit the restless surface of its turning points and the its restless surface. sea: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in sea and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar, arctic and Antarctic ice sheets: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3 to 1 preponderance of dry land on the globe: a its dry sphere in the globe 1. leagues throughout the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-century stability of its primitive basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and keep in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and descending promontories: its alluvial deposits: its high weight and volume: its volumes and detunities: its gradation of colors in the torrid and temperate and frigid areas: its vehicular ramifications in continental lakes contain rivers and confluent marine rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: the gulf, north and south equatorial currents: their violence in seaquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, torrents, spaghetti, fresh land water partitions, geysers, cataracts, vortices, maelstroms, floods, deluges, clouds: its vast circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its secret in springs, and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well from the air hole, the saturation of the Ashtown wall, the simplicity of the air wall, the saturation of the Ashtown wall. its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with a constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetrative in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on board: its properties for purification, quenching thirst and fire, nourishment of its vegetation as a paradigm and metamorphos: fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and bays and golfs and bights and bights and boys and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fiords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of sea: its solidity in glaciers, dofloice in working in glaciers, dofloice in hydrauice mills, turbines, dynamo, power stations, candeggies, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and graving: its potential derived from exploited tides or water courses that fall from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) its ubiquity as it constitutes 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its effluvia in lake marshes, swamps pestilential, faded flower waters, stagnant stagnant in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated the value of water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to demonstrate the impact of clean water in people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name was used in a series of jokes and jokes that made fun of scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by several Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Timeline: The Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and associated publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for Water and Steam Properties Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary