Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of Earth's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known life forms, yet does not provide dietary energy or an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and the strong polarity associated with its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water droplets and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, ice crystals can float in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with the seas and oceans containing the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Smaller portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice caps in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (composed of ice and liquid water suspended in air), and rain (0.001%). Water continues to move through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. Approximately 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water bodies has been, and continues to be, a main source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used to cool and heat industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for various substances, both mineral and organic; thus, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, recreational swimming, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-wet-wet form of (*wod-wet-o). Also, through Indo-European roots, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from which English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a slight blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is not good at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, the water found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special measures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as solid, liquid, and gas under normal conditions on earth. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter in water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools over a certain temperature; it is the only known natural substance that does so while liquid. In addition, it is unique because it becomes less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the water volume decreases. As it freezes and forms ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create a lot of pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual tendency to contract and become denser as it cools. These unique thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or sea, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, which floats on liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes die during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets a notable interaction can be achieved. Phase shifts
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to steam above it by evaporation (vaporization of the entire liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by the deposition of an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on it sublimates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              Q
            
            
              d
              Q
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              Q
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting pressure can occur under a sufficiently thick volume of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceeded 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
In a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. It meets at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); this is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. Until 2024, twenty have been confirmed by experiment and many more have been predicted by theory. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centred-cubic, superionic phase of ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are poorly understood; some theories suggest that its unique behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to assess the viscosity of water to avoid water that is too salty or turbid. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color is easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in the sun. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, which follows Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower overtones in water means that glass cuvettes with shorter path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching of the absorption spectrum in water or in an aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5° angle with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners are the lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form a 109.5° angle, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Some substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms have a partially negative charge while hydrogen atoms have a partially positive charge. With the bent structure, it gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugar and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving the fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances of living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other events important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its extremely high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in changing the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds in water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to covalent O–H bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, approximately 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is shared by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –having equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, accompanied by solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases the solubility of slightly ionic materials such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances through water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental listening (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of water in the earth is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of the waters of the earth is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The estimated amount of groundwater (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as seas, oceans, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere as solid, liquid, and vapor. It is also present as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on land. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water continues to move through each of these regions of the water cycle, consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. runoff from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration that occurs on land also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high density water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to create rainbows. Runoff is usually collected over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide fertile soil and flat land for the construction of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average rainfall due to its topography or due to its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can potentially be used by humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total amount of global fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere, and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage varies greatly: some aquifers contain water that has been stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during the dry season and increasing during the wet season. A large fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water taken from water stored in stocks, and if the withdrawals exceed the recharge, the stocks will decrease. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the great seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity level of between 30 and 40%, is a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclic rise and fall of local sea level due to the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine waters and produce oscillating currents known as tidal streams. The change in water produced at a location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The strip of coastline submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important product of marine tidal ecology. Effects on life
From a biological standpoint, water has many unique properties that are essential for the proliferation of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to act in ways that ultimately allow reproduction. All known life forms depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes are dissolved and as an important part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes cannot take place. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate hydrogen in water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to obtain solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal situation. Acids have pH values below 7 while bases have values above 7. Life forms in water
The waters of the earth's surface are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life arose in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface from time to time to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated water including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, while invertebrate life has evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects of human civilization
Civilization has historically developed around rivers and large waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lies between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The first Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also built along Italy's Tiber river. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, thrive for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water has long been an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine in bathing water pollutants). Bathing water can be maintained in good microbiological conditions using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in countries with water scarcity, which means that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide every year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which is repeated in the natural hydrologic cycle, but the pressure to access it is a result of the natural uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic needs in agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people around the world who do not have access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal is uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million die each year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal waste is still untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, which account for nearly a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of them withdraw more water each year than can be recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but it also damages groundwater sources. Human resources
Agriculture
The most important human water use is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often neglected, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, cleaning, and delivering water, and removing waste. But growing economic, demographic, and climate pressures have increased concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat expands, and new demands rise for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of agricultural water management was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed a growing population. It assesses current water availability for agriculture on a global scale and maps locations suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas with physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. An additional 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where the lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for the authorities to satisfy the demand for water. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of current food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also due to the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of one pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is used in regions that are at risk of water scarcity. Great environmental damage has been done: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is a major cause of the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific basis
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes however, a metal reference standard, a thousand times larger, is needed. So the work was commissioned to determine the exact weight of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the pushed definition of the specific gram of water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very variable temperature—scientists chose to change the standard again and make their measurements at the temperature of the maximum density of water, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale in the SI system is based on the triple point of water, which is defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with equal increments on the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but they still affect the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined by the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gallons) per day for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are ingested through foods or drinks other than drinking straight water. Medical literature favors a low consumption, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that excessive water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. An original recommendation for drinking water in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council reads: "An ordinary standard for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The most recent dietary reference intake report in the U.S. National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal, not the water provided by the total 1% of water) total water intake in the survey. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need more fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine suggests that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase the intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), because a greater amount of fluid is lost during nursing. It is also noted that usually, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweat, and through the emission of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss increases and daily fluid needs may increase as well. People need water with less impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for enhancing flavor and providing necessary electrolytes. The largest (by volume) source of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical products
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because the reactants are poorly soluble and are amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a research topic. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water can burn organic pollutants effectively. Heat exchange
Water and steam is a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, for cooling and heating. Cold water can be obtained naturally from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective in transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize faster in untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in the closed-loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat to the water body or bring it through evaporation in the cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is a coolant and moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are favored for stopping a reaction and prefer to keep the nuclear core in water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it an excellent firefighting fluid. Evaporation of water carries away the heat from the fire. The use of water in fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because many organic materials float in the water and the water tends to spread through the burning liquid. The use of water to fight fires must also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in limited areas, and a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case was not from fighting the fire but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when intense heating in the core causes water to flash into steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce extremely hot reactions with water that can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is usually delivered in paper bags. If it gets wet, it can ignite as its contents react with the water. Have fun
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and for sports. Some of these include swimming, waterskiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and have fun. Many find the sound and sight of running water calming, and waterfalls and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature such as ice or snow crystals. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are in development. Drinking water is usually collected in springs, drawn from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate areas is a possible way to produce more water, if the aquifers can provide enough flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may include the removal of undigested substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need free of charge. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water can be the biggest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other water uses, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the polluter's benefits. Like other types of pollution, it does not enter the standard accounting of market costs, which are conceived as externalities that the market cannot produce. Thus other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial waste is usually treated in waste treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and extract ingredients, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, require dedicated water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity derived from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that drive generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used to cool machinery to prevent overheating, or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses various purification methods for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that usually require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays a critical role in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the amount of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Water solutes also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of food microbes. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated by using a chemical ion exchange system. It can greatly affect the quality of a product, as well as the role of sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate present in the water. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of meat requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in meat production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a result of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by strong external winds of gas and dust. When this flow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves produced compress and heat the gas. The water observed is quickly produced by this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies, too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems likely have similar components. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a lot of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the entire atmosphere, usually 1–4% at the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: to trace the volume
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - of ice only; and that of his month Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - of ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - trace value below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – visible in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer thick ocean approximately 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest a subsurface liquid ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: The surface of Europa and also Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon System
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And probably also available in:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water where the molecules are broken into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water where the oxygen is crystallized, but the hydrogen ions are free floating within the oxygen lattice. The water and planet habitat
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to co-exist may be less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the pressure of the environment, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is large enough, the water on its surface can become solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is the politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and a key element in many political conflicts. This causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has increased over the past decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, issued in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report stated that it enough for the United Nations, but for all countries hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been accepted by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, which may leave many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as a reason for some types of water scarcity. Water management is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing what processes are most effective in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Sometimes mistakes are made by trying to apply 'plans' that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong river is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of the policies of six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often tied to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safe sanitation management. Urban people (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. But in the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, tropical flooding has decreased fourfold, while northern mid-latitude flooding has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute conducts projects with the goal of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. The World Day for Water will take place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations has declared that humanity has entered an era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries with no water security, 4 billion people experience water shortages every year, 3 billion every year. It calls for policies that conform to reality rather than past rules. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleanser in most religions. Beliefs that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament in Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless there is no water (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to purify a person or a place (for example, in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, believed that earth, which is denser than water, came out of water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things were made from water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body includes phlegm water, as cold and moist. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest quality is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is seen in its benefit to all things, and in its occupying, without striving (to the contrary), the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its path) is close to (that) Man" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, but for attacking things that are firm and strong nothing can precede it - for nothing (effective) can change it." of people in different regions of China on the nature of local water sources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of raising the dead. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "flow and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until it subsides into the calm silence of the closing 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the most faning moon is considering the waning moon. Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of raising all the clutter of information in the school books." The literary motif of water represents the theme of the novel, "eternal life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif of the novel. What is it about water that Bloom admires, lover of water, sinker of water, bringer of water that returns to order? Its universality: its democratic equality and its nature's consistency in finding its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its pipeless depth in the Sundam channel of the Pacific that exceeds 8,000 restless points on its surface: seaboard: the freedom of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in calms: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climate and commercial importance: its superiority over land: its superiority over land: extending square leagues throughout the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular strength of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: the slow subsidence of peninsulas and the reduction of its weight and its mass: lagoon and highland tarns: its gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its effects on continental vehicles lakes containing streams and converging rivers flowing into the ocean with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial channels: its violence in earthquakes, rivers, tidal waters freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: the vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secret of the springs, and the hidden humidity, revealed by the rhabdomantic and hyemplified instruments on the wall of the instruments saturation of the air, distillation of the dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing benefits: its buoyancy in the water of the Dead Sea: its continuous penetration of runnels, gullies, insufficient dams, ship leaks: its properties for cleaning, extinguishing plants paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses such as steam, fog, clouds, rain, hail, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its various forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and solids group of water, glaciers and tidal estuaries icefloes: its obedience to the work of hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its use in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its potential is obtained from harnessed tides or watercourses that fall from level to level, in a submarine way: the submarine waters, when the water level and water falling from level to level, in rivers. literally, the inhabitants of the world: its ubiquity as it covers 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded water flowers, stagnant pools of the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our trust in water. The largest exhibition ever seen at the Cathedral, it features more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name is used in a series of hoaxes and jokes that make fun of scientific ignorance. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story contains safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" is used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Chronology of Water Conflict: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water science school (USGS)
Portal to The World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary