Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Because water is a polar molecule, it forms strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds, which contribute greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy nor is it an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global occurrence, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the “universal solvent.” Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water on Earth exists as a solid, liquid, and gas. Precipitation forms in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made up of floating water droplets and ice, their solid state. When finely dispersed, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and airborne liquid water), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continually moves through the hydrologic cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff and usually ends up in the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water consumed by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fishing has been and continues to be an important source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas and industrial products) is transported by boats across seas, rivers, lakes and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and households. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of mineral and organic substances; Therefore, it is often used in industrial processes as well as in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow also play a central role in many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German water, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, affixed form of the root *wed- ("water"; “wet”). Also related via the Indo-European root to the Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English "hydro-"), the Russian вода́ (vodá), the Irish uisce and the Albanian ujë. story
On earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. As the simplest chalcogenide hydrogen, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it dissolves nonpolar substances poorly. This makes it the “solvent of life”: in fact, water, as it occurs in nature, almost always contains various dissolved substances, and to obtain chemically pure water, special steps are required. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. States
Along with Oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, i.e. ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or water vapor. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled within certain temperature ranges; It is the only known naturally occurring substance that does this in a liquid state. Additionally, it is unusual because it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this regard. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (and becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, causing pipes to burst and rocks to shatter. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water underneath, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die in winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat throughout the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, remarkable interaction can be achieved with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, water can also turn into vapor through evaporation below the boiling point on its surface (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by depositing on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. Freeze-drying involves freezing a food and then storing it at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure comes from the Clausius-Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. For most substances, the volume increases as they melt, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature drops. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick amounts of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but the vapor phase at the liquid/gas transition has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep sea or underground. For example, temperatures at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park, exceed 205 °C (401 °F). In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). Because air pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point drops by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to shorten cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
In a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point, called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); It is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/steam phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; Its properties (which differ significantly from those of the surrounding water) depend sensitively on density. For example, at appropriate pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle it acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several more are predicted theoretically. The eighteenth ice form, Ice When ice lies between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. taste and smell
Pure water is commonly described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the drinkability of water in order to avoid water that is too salty or foul. color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to light absorption in region c. 600-800 nm. The color is easily observed in a glass of tap water against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column according to Beer's law. This also applies to a swimming pool, for example, if the light source is sunlight reflected by the white tiles of the pool. In nature, a color change from blue to green can also occur due to the presence of suspended matter or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used for aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of the lower overtones of water allows the use of short path length glass cuvettes. To observe the basic stretch absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of approximately 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette must be transparent and water-insoluble at around 3500 cm−1; Calcium fluoride is a material often used for cuvette windows in aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental oscillations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water depths of up to hundreds of meters because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerin (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are located near two corners of a tetrahedron whose center is oxygen. At the other two corners there are free valence electron pairs that are not involved in the bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs of electrons is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. This, along with the bent structure, gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter is what makes carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers fizz. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules influence protein folding, DNA base pairing and other vital phenomena (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils as well as alkanes) are hydrophobic, i.e. insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in its liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the van der Waals force, which attracts molecules toward one another in most liquids. For this reason, the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (approx. 4.2 J/(g K)), heat of fusion (approx. 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m K)). These properties allow water to more effectively moderate Earth's climate by storing and transporting heat between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of this is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action is the tendency of water to move upwards in a narrow tube against gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, associated with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as table salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
For most purposes, liquid water can be considered to be incompressible: its compressibility under normal conditions is between 4.4 and 5.1×10−10 Pa−1. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels over long distances in water with little attenuation, particularly at low frequencies (approximately 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property used by whales and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and to a lesser extent alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, form hydroxides and release hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with water vapor to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water on Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecohydrology focuses on ecological processes involving hydrology. The entire mass of water located on, beneath, and above a planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate water volume (the world's entire water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds or puddles. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water also occurs in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also occurs as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important for many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater influences fault patterns. Water in the Earth's mantle is responsible for the melt that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important for both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for much of the transport of sediment on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments creates many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water constantly moves through each of these regions in the water cycle and consists of the following transfer processes:

Evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. Precipitation, which is formed from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the earth or ocean. Runoff from land that normally flows into the sea. Most water vapor, found primarily in the ocean, returns there, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration in landmasses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a precipitation rate of 119 Tt per year over land, occurs in various forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that condense when high-density water vapor hits a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise, and when the Earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight, creating rainbows. Runoff water often collects over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment and creates river valleys and deltas that provide nutrient-rich and level soils for the development of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low lying, is covered with water. This happens when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years during which a region experiences a shortage in water supplies. This occurs when a region consistently receives below-average rainfall due to its topography or location in relation to latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or as irrigation water. Water occurs as both “reserves” and “rivers.” Water can be stored in the form of lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, as well as ice and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the total global freshwater volume is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage varies widely: some aquifers consist of water that has been stored for thousands of years, but lake volume can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. In some regions, a significant portion of the water supply consists of water obtained from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawal exceeds recharge, reserves decline. It is estimated that up to 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
On average, seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from those of fresh water in several important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of the water in the major seas varies between about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea and 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity of 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of ocean and estuarine waters, creating oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The tidal change produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The coastal strip that is inundated at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the ocean's tides. Impact on life
From a biological perspective, water has many different properties that are critical to the proliferation of life. It performs this role by causing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is crucial both as a solvent in which many dissolved substances in the body are dissolved and as an essential component of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. Anabolism involves removing water from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g. starch, triglycerides, and proteins to store fuel and information). Catabolism uses water to break bonds to create smaller molecules (e.g. glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids, which are used as fuels for energy or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split the hydrogen in water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy, converting water and CO2 (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, i.e. a proton donor), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−), to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in its ideal state. Acids have pH values ​​below 7, while bases have values ​​above 7. Life forms in water
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some animal species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as seaweed and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the basis of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must regularly surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have a variety of modifications to survive in oxygen-poor waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most animals have little or no specialized breathing in water. Impact on human civilization
Civilization historically flourished around rivers and major waterways. Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian River Tiber. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. For the same reason, islands with safe water harbors like Singapore have thrived. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water has been and continues to be an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Water that is not drinkable can be made drinkable through filtration, distillation, or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when swimming or bathing is called by other names as drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water or “safe for bathing.” Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water suitable for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 ppm (part per million) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm chlorine, which has not yet reacted with contaminants, for bathing water). The bathing water can be kept in a satisfactory microbiological condition by chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water recycling is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly wastewater, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. Water-stressed countries are home to 2.3 billion people, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. Each year, 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of urban wastewater is produced worldwide. Fresh water is a renewable resource that is recirculated through the natural water cycle. However, the pressure on access results from the naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic needs of agriculture and industry, and the growing population. Currently, almost a billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals, which aim to halve the proportion of people worldwide who lack access to clean water and sanitation by 2015. Progress toward this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; About five million deaths per year are caused by water-borne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent the deaths of 1.4 million children from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity, and 17 of them withdraw more water annually than are replenished by their natural water cycles. The pollution not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also affects groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Most human water use is in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is used for irrigation, but the vast majority of “spent” (used and not returned to the environment) water goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and deliver water and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are leading to increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for firm water resources and giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and economy continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat increases, and demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water challenges are likely. The International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted an assessment of water management in agriculture in 2007 to determine whether the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It has been found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. An additional 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water stress, where a lack of investment in water or inadequate human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water needs. The report noted that while it was possible to produce the food needed in the future, continuing today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing food needs while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water shortages are also caused by the production of water-intensive products. Example of cotton: 10.9 cubic meters of water are required to produce 1 kg of cotton – the equivalent of a pair of jeans. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, the water is used in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage was caused: for example, the diversion of water from the Amu Darja and Syr Darja rivers by the former Soviet Union for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as “the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter and at the temperature of melting ice.” However, for practical reasons, a metallic reference standard that was a thousand times heavier, a kilogram, was required. Therefore, a work was commissioned to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Although the established definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F) – a highly reproducible temperature – the scientists decided to redefine the standard and take their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was then measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but since May 2019 has been based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined using the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The proportion of heavier isotopes is very small, but still influences the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the “Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water” specification. To drink
Depending on age, gender and body size, the human body contains an average of 50-60% water, but for individual people it can be between 45% and 75%. The US National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is absorbed through food or beverages other than drinking plain water. Medical literature recommends a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for an average man, excluding additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that “a person should drink eight glasses of water a day” appears to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that additional water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with meals, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 from the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council stated: "A common standard for different individuals is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The most recent dietary intake reference report from the U.S. National Research Council generally recommends, based on mean total water intake from U.S. survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) of total water for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that dietary water accounts for approximately 19% of total water intake in the survey. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women to 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also important to note that typically about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated drinks). Water is excreted from the body in various forms; through urine and feces, through sweating and through exhalation of water vapor in the air. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss increases and the daily fluid requirement can also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The largest freshwater resource by volume suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Wash
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is often used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not typically used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these characteristics are sometimes desirable. In addition, an acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. Supercritical water has recently become the subject of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are widely used for heat exchange for both cooling and heating due to their availability and high heat capacity. Cool water may even be available naturally from a lake or the ocean. Due to its large latent heat of vaporization, it is particularly effective at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working medium (in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a coolant (for exchanging waste heat to a body of water or for removal by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants is the largest water use. In the nuclear energy industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This represents a kind of passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping a reaction are preferred and it is preferred to keep the core core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Considerations about the fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting fluid. The evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. In oil and organic solvent fires, the use of water is dangerous because many organic materials float on the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also consider the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and a hydrogen explosion, in which substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coke graphite, decompose the water to produce water gas. The power of such explosions was demonstrated in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water came not from firefighting but from the reactor's water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, particularly those of alkali and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can pose a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also called calcium oxide, is a mass-produced product that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. recovery
Humans use water for many recreational purposes as well as for physical activity and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places to relax and unwind. Many find the sound and appearance of running water calming, and fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plant and animal species in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature, crystallized as either ice or snow. Water management
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, obtained from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is therefore one way to produce more water, provided that the aquifers can support sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater collection. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include filtering with sand, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed via community water systems, tanker deliveries or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using drinking water (potable water) only for human use. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution is perhaps the biggest misuse of water; To the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, they are not included in the standard accounting of market costs because they are considered externalities that the market cannot take into account. Thus, other people pay the price for water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not passed on to the local population who are victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that involve chemicals dissolved in water, the suspension of solids in water slurries, or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling consume large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydropower is electricity generated from hydroelectric power. Hydropower is created by water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a cost-effective, environmentally friendly and renewable energy source. The energy is provided by the movement of the water. Typically, a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that drive generators. Pressurized water is used in water jetting and water jet cutting. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used to cool machines to prevent saw blades from overheating or overheating. In addition to its use as a chemical solvent, water is also used in many industrial processes and machines such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger. The discharge of untreated water from industrial plants constitutes environmental pollution. The pollution includes escaping dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and escaping cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses various purification techniques in both water supply and water drainage. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so expanding AI “may threaten global and national water security.” Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many crucial roles in the field of food science. Solutes found in water, such as salts and sugars, affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are influenced by dissolved substances as well as air pressure, which in turn is influenced by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures and the lower air pressure that exists at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water increases the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg increases the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Substances dissolved in water also affect water activity, which influences many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because the growth of most bacteria stops when water activity is low. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a crucial factor in food processing and can be changed or treated by using a chemical ion exchange system. It can significantly affect the quality of a product and also play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate contained in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (USA). According to a 2010 report published by the Water Footprint organization, a single kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and the amount of water used in beef production depends on circumstance factors. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material finally hits the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water forms quickly in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, the “discovery shows that water was dominant in the universe for almost its entire existence.” Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies as well, as its components hydrogen and oxygen are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar components. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable traces
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the entire atmosphere, typically 1-4% at the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in traces
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Atmosphere of Jupiter: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – traces below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and have even been detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water also occurs in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water is present in Saturn's moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers beneath Enceladus' south pole surface, and in Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water could also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks. NASA reported in September 2009 the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa's surface and also those of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud objects
And is probably also available on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles likely make up much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper in the form of superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and habitability of the planet
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms on Earth is crucial to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the solar system; If it were a little closer to the Sun or a little further away (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist at the same time would be far less likely. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere including humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have an extremely thin atmosphere or no atmosphere at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that, when regularly present, helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is sufficiently massive, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damages biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved in almost every part of the world in recent decades, but about a billion people still lack access to clean water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that more than half of the world's population will be at risk of water-related problems by 2025. A report published in November 2009 estimated that water demand in some developing regions of the world will exceed water supply by 50% by 2030. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source. It is estimated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that “there is enough water for all,” but access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up as effectively by donors in the water sector as in the education and health sectors, potentially resulting in multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments lacking the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 “Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture” cited poor governance as a reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply “blueprints” that work in the developed world to locations and contexts in developing countries. The Mekong is an example; An International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also noted that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-borne diseases, often caused by a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, prepared by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools for the development of sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) lack access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. According to the report, 10% of the world's population lives in countries with severe or critical water scarcity. But over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year and is expected to increase at the same pace until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods was 100,000 deaths and $650 million between 2000 and 2019. Organizations working on water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects with the aim of reducing poverty through effective water management. Water-related conventions include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22nd and World Oceans Day on June 8th. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of the Great Lakes had declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands had disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lived in water-insecure countries, 4 billion people suffered from water scarcity at least one month of the year, and droughts cost $307 billion per year. It called for policies that reflect reality and not the norms of the past. In culture
religion
Water is considered a cleansing agent in most religions. Faiths that involve ritual ablutions (ablutions) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shintoism, Taoism and Wicca. Immersing (or pouring or dousing) a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); It is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (Mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, many religions, including Islam and Judaism, perform a ritual bath in pure water for the deceased. In Islam, in most cases, the five daily prayers can be performed after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (Wudu), unless water is unavailable (see Tayammum). In Shintoism, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (e.g. in the Misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing people, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is viewed as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and viewed it as the ylem, or fundamental substance, of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water resembled an icosahedron - meaning it flowed easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. In the four humors theory, water is associated with mucus because it is cold and moist. The classical element water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is shown in that it benefits all things and in it, without striving (on the contrary), occupies the lowly place which all men dislike." Therefore (his path) is close to that of the Tao.” Regions on the character of local water resources
“Living water” is used in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of reviving the deceased. Consider the Grimm fairy tale (“The Water of Life”) and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's major modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism with 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Hymn." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous series of facts," rather its phrases, like its theme, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they sink into the quiet calm of the final 'pestilent moors, faded floral waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon'." According to literary critics, the hymn is considered one of the most remarkable passages in Ithaca. Hugh Kenner achieves "the improbable feat of transforming into poetry the entire jumble of incomprehensible information that has accumulated in school textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The hymn is quoted in full below. What in the water did Bloom, the water lover, water creator, water carrier, admire as he returned to the mountains? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in the search for its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unexplored depth in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific of more than 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles alternately visiting all points of its coast: the independence of its units: the changeability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic calm in the absence of wind: its hydrokinetic turgidity at Neap and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice caps of the Arctic and Antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: its predominance of 3 to 1 over the mainland of the Earth: its indisputable hegemony, extending in square miles over the entire region below the subequatorial Tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primordial basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the noblest metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and downward-facing foothills: its alluvial deposits: its weight, volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and mountain lakes: its gradation of colors in the hot, temperate and cold zones: its vehicular effects in continental, sea-bearing streams and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: Gulf Stream, northern and southern equatorial currents: its violence in seaquakes, gargoyles, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshwater floods, ground waves, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, whirlpools, floods, floods, cloudbursts: its huge circumferential horizontal curve: its secrecy in springs and latent moisture revealed by rhabdomanic or hygrometric instruments and illustrated at the well through the hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituents of hydrogen with one constituent of oxygen: its healing properties: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its constant penetration in rivulets, ravines, inadequate Damping, leaks on board: its properties for purification, for quenching thirst and fire, for nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as a paradigm and model: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid fire hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and bays and bowels and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and seas and fjords and minches and Tidal estuaries and inlets: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility in the work of hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleaching works, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, where navigable, floating and floating Grave docks: its possibilities derived from harnessed tides or watercourses that vary from plain to level fall; its underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobic), numerically if not literally the inhabitants of the globe; its ubiquity, making up 90% of the human body; the noxiousness of its effluents in lake swamps, pestilent bogs, faded floral waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated “The Value of Water” at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring a year-long cathedral initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever presented at the cathedral featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an ecological artist collective that uses water as a theme or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. On the occasion of the 10th To mark the anniversary of the UN Declaration on the Human Right to Access to Water and Sanitation, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
“Dihydrogen monoxide” is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a number of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983 when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was due to safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used as a sort of catchphrase or adlib by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

The world's water data site
FAO comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
Water Science School (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and related publications
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Internet
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
“Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe”, Ideas, BBC, video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022, at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary