Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which contributes significantly to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic trace element. Because of water's presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, global abundance, and strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, it is often called the "universal solvent." Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of floating droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can be deposited as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, seas and oceans make up the majority of water (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continuously moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. Approximately 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and will continue to be, the main source of food in many regions of the world, providing 6.5% of global light. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and industrial products) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Industry and homes use large amounts of water, ice and steam for cooling and heating. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, pleasure boating, racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European root form *wod-weed-orpean, mouth. ('water'; 'wet'). Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian wją are also related through an Indo-European root. History
On the ground
Characteristics
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless, with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because it can dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it dissolves non-polar substances poorly. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. states
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so in liquid form. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and turns into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits normal behavior, contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and forms ice on the surface that floats on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in the lakes would die in winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, significant interactions can be achieved with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can become steam when it evaporates at its surface (evaporation throughout a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes are deposited on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In freeze-drying, food is frozen and then held at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature and pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances increase in volume during melting, so the melting point increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature drops. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park, has a temperature of over 205 °C (401 °F). In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at an altitude of 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to shorten the cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water begins to boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
The pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) has curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); this is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds, under suitable pressure and temperature. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and precipitation of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The common form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another ice, Ic, with cubic crystal symmetry may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic phase of ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When trapped between the graphene layers, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Clean water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs can smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances, which can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge drinking water to avoid too salty or rotten water. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to light absorption in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color is easy to observe in daylight in a glass of tap water placed against a clean white background. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool, if the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. Near-infrared spectroscopy is used in industry with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of the lower overtones in water means that a short path length glass cuvette can be used. A path length of about 25 μm is required to observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in a region of about 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm). Also, the cuvette must be transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material commonly used for aqueous cuvette windows. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight reaches them. Virtually no sunlight reaches depths below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) in the oceans. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64–1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are located near the two corners of the oxygen-centered tetrahedron. The remaining two corners have lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). But oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, the latter of which gives fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances found in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to 492 kJ/mol for a covalent O-H bond). Of this, 90% is believed to be electrostatically related, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions that are formed. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when a small amount of ionic material, such as common salt, is dissolved. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing it through an electric current, a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released during the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility under normal conditions is between 4.4 and 5.1 × 10–10 Pa−1. Even in 4 km deep oceans, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water at 20 °C (68 °F) is about 10–3 Pa·s, or 0.01 bushel, and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600–5,100 ft/s), depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at the low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz) that cetaceans and humans use for communication and environmental detection (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the ground
Hydrology studies the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. Hydrogeology, glacial glaciology, inland limnology, and oceanic distribution are the study of the distribution and movement of groundwater. Ecohydrology focuses on ecological processes together with hydrology. The total mass of water on, under, and on the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It is also found as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Most rocks contain groundwater, and the pressure of that groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for the large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms several types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water continuously moves through all these areas in a water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation resulting from water vapor condensing from the air falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean returns there, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as it flows into the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation at a rate of 119 Tt/year over land is of several types: most commonly rain, snow, and hail, with some additions of fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high-density water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when the ground temperature begins to rise. Condensation in the air can also refract sunlight, creating rainbows. Water runoff often accumulates in watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for settlement centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a deficit in its water supply. This occurs when an area receives persistently below-average rainfall either due to its topography or latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and as ice and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the world's total fresh water is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The shelf life of water is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water accumulated over thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing in dry times and increasing in wet times. A significant proportion of the water supply in some areas consists of water withdrawn from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawal exceeds recharge, reserves are depleted. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride, to which smaller amounts of other substances are added. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to its freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The water salinity of the larger seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity of 30-40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclic rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine waters and create oscillating currents called tidal currents. The variable elevation at a given location is due to the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The seashore, or tidal zone, which is submerged during high tide and exposed during low tide, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Implications for life
From a biological perspective, there are still many different characteristics that are critical for the spread of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many substances dissolved in the body dissolve, and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy required for enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (such as starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (such as glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids, which are used in fuels for energy or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate hydrogen from oxygen in water. In sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to ensuring acid-base neutrality and enzyme functions. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e. proton) donor, can be neutralized with a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), to form water. Water is considered neutral, in its ideal state the pH (negative logarithmic value of the concentration of hydrogen ions) is 7. Acids have a pH value below 7, while bases have a pH value greater than 7. Aquatic Life Forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life arose in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and marine mammals such as dolphins and whales abound. Certain types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a number of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have many different modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated water, including breathing tubes (see siphons in insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in an aquatic habitat, most of them have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Impact on Human Civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries, which flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. For the same reason, islands with safe harbors such as Singapore have flourished. In water-scarce places like North Africa and the Middle East, access to clean drinking water was and is a key driver of human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration, distillation or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans for swimming or bathing is known by various names other than potable or potable water and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 parts per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or ultraviolet light. Water recycling is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-stressed countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic meters) of water per year. Every year, 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cubic meters) of domestic wastewater are produced worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource that is cycled through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on its access arise from its naturally uneven spatial distribution, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals, which aim to halve the number of people without access to clean water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; About five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent the deaths of 1.4 million children each year from diarrhea. In developing countries, 90% of all domestic sewage still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, home to about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 countries withdraw more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycle. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater supplies. Human use
Agriculture
Humanity uses the largest amount of water in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the US, 42% of fresh water is withdrawn for use for irrigation, but the vast majority of "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) water goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries where complex water systems have been built to collect, treat and deliver water and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water problems, leading to increasing competition for permanent water resources, leading to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat increases, and new demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries emerges, new water challenges are likely. In 2007, the International Water Management Institute of Sri Lanka conducted an agricultural water management assessment to see if the world has enough water to feed a growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agricultural use on a global scale and mapped places suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion people, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for institutions to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the necessary food in the future as well, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water shortage is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton – the equivalent of a pair of jeans – requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water consumption, water is consumed in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage has been caused: for example, the disappearance of the Aral Sea was largely due to the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as "the absolute mass of a volume of pure water equal to one-hundredth of a meter cubed and at the melting point of ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive kilogram, was needed. Therefore, the work was commissioned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the gram definition defined water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the researchers decided to redefine the standard and perform the measurements at the temperature of the highest water density, then measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale in the SI system was based on the triple point of water, which was precisely defined at 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by the boiling point (100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) are also found in small amounts. The proportion of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. River and lake water tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Standard water is therefore defined in the Vienna Standard Medium Ocean Water Specification. For drinking
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although humans can have 45-75% water. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend that adult men consume 3.7 liters (0.98 gallons) of water per day and women 2.7 liters (0.71 gallons). The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is ingested with food or drink other than plain water. The medical literature favors a lower water intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress, such as exercise, can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than they need during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with a meal, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original 1945 recommendation for water intake by the US National Science Council's Food and Nutrition Board stated: "The usual standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." The US National Research Council's most recent Dietary Intake Comparison Report generally recommended, based on US survey data (including food sources), the average water intake of 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water containing 9% of total water for women. participation in the study. Specifically, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups) because of the extra fluid loss during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that typically about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated ones). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, perspiration, and exhalation of water vapor. During physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss increases and the daily fluid requirement may also increase. People need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even recommended to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest (by volume) potable freshwater resource is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
The use of chemistry
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent, and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds close to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these characteristics are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a research topic. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange for both cooling and heating due to their availability and high heat capacity. Cool water can be obtained naturally even from a lake or sea. Heat transport through evaporation and condensation of water is particularly efficient due to its high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly when exposed to untreated water and steam. Almost all thermal power plants use water as a working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a cooling fluid (used to exchange waste heat to water or to remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants use the most water. Water can also be used as a neutron moderator in the nuclear power industry. In most nuclear reactors, water serves as both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction, and keeping the core covered with water is preferred to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. Water is dangerous to use when burning oils and organic solvents because many organic substances float on water and water tends to disperse the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting operations should also consider the risk of steam explosions that can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and the risk of hydrogen explosions when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or coke graphite, break down the water to produce gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this incident did not come from firefighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused the water to turn into steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metal and alkaline earth metal oxides, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If soaked, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Free time
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and scuba diving. In addition, some sports are played on the ice, such as ice hockey and ice skating. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and enjoy their free time. Many find the sound and appearance of running water soothing, and fountains and other running water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to crystallize as either ice or snow at low temperatures. Water industry
The water industry offers drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection cisterns, water supply networks and water treatment equipment, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, drawn from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water for human consumption may require purification. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills all three functions. There are advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Bulk seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, tank water or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water for free to those in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using drinking water only for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water supplies. Water pollution may be the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it is not included in the standard calculation of market costs, as it is treated as an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local residents who are victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in water bodies and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Domestic and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface water runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, the suspension of solids in water, or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water that require a dedicated water source and often result in significant water pollution. Water is used in electricity production. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating or overheating of saw blades. Water is also used as a chemical solvent in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various treatment methods for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially AI, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and stewing are popular cooking methods that often require immersion of food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in food science. Dissolved substances in water, such as salts and sugars, affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as well as atmospheric pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because the growth of most bacteria stops at low water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. This can significantly affect the quality of the product and play a role in sewage. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (USA). According to a report published in 2010 by the Veejalajälje organization, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors explain that this is a global average and indirect factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water quickly forms in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been common in the universe for almost all of its existence." Water has been discovered in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Water is likely to be abundant in other galaxies as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are the most common elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar constituents. Water vapor
Water occurs as steam:

Sun's atmosphere: In detectable amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the total atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: In small amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and this month's Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - in small quantities below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - Found in deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: Not limited to cooler stars and detected even in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Round disks: including the disks of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris, and S Persei. Liquid water
Earth has liquid water that covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally found on Mars in small quantities. Scientists believe that Enceladus' Saturnian moons contain liquid water as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30 to 40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface and in Titan's subsurface layer, which may be mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock on Jupiter's moon Ganymede. Water ice
Water occurs as ice:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in craters and volcanic rocks on the Moon, NASA announced that NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper detected water molecules aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and in the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud objects
And it probably also exists:

The poles of Mercury
in Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably make up a large part of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float more or less freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and Planetary Habitability
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms on Earth is essential for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to occur simultaneously would be much less likely. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively uniform surface temperature when present in normal amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the surrounding pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can also be solid at high temperatures due to the high pressure due to gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all regions of the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have predicted that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face the problem of water-based vulnerability. A report published in November 2009 indicates that by 2030, water demand will exceed supply by 50% in some developing regions of the world. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water. According to calculations, the proportion of people with access to safe water in developing countries increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. hampered by bad governance and corruption. In addition, donors in the water sector have not adopted global aid effectiveness initiatives, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, as effectively as in education and health, leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without mandates to act. 2007 The authors of the comprehensive assessment of agricultural water management in 2015 named bad management as one of the reasons for certain forms of water shortage. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. The goal of good water governance is primarily to know which processes work best in a specific physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply plans that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; An International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries that depend on water from the Mekong River found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report says two billion people (26% of the population) lack access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. The population of urban areas (2.4 billion) will have water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by approximately 1% per year and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects aimed at using efficient water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on 22 March and World Oceans Day is on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy", as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-stressed countries, 4 billion years will be spent with at least one month of water scarcity and water scarcity. $307 billion a year. This required policies that corresponded to reality rather than the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
In most religions, water is considered a purifier. Faiths that involve ritual washing (drowning) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or aspersion) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (ghusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayamum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (such as the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and considered it to be the supreme or basic substance of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. The monist Thales further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that water is an icosahedron shape that flows easily compared to the cubic earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm because it is cold and moist. The classical element water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like water. The excellence of water is manifested in that it benefits all things, and when it occupies (contrary) without striving a low place, which all men do not like. Therefore (this path) is close (to the Tao) and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, but to attack solid and strong things there is nothing that can be superior - because there is nothing (so effective) for which it could be changed." Guanzi's "Shui di" in the 水地 water symbol and the water symbol chapter that discusses water further describes. The natural characteristics of the people of different regions of China with the nature of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
Irish writer James Joyce's seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922) has a chapter called "Ithaca" in the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called the "Water Hymn." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely "a monotonous series of facts," but its phrases, like their theme, "ebb and flow, ebb and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the calm silence of the concluding "catastrophe, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. and, according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of elevating into poetry all the jarring information accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the culmination of this motif in the novel. The following is the quoted hymn in its entirety. What did Bloom, the water lover, the water drawer, the range-returning water carrier, admire in the water? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy with its nature, seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of the Mercator projection: its bottomless depth in the Sundam wave trench, 0.0 Pac's restlessness0: restlessness0. and particles of the surface visiting all points of the sea-shore in turn: the independence of its units: the variability of sea-states: its hydrostatic restlessness in calms: its hydrokinetic buoyancy in sudden and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in the polar ice-caps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance in relation to the land3 The globe: its undisputed hegemony extending in squares over the whole region below the sub-equatorial Tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primordial basin: its luteofulvous layer: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble matter, including millions of tons of the most precious metals; its slow erosion: all peninsular and downward erosions: volume and density: its undisturbedness in lagoons and highlands: its gradation of colors in the arid, temperate, and cool zones: its traction effects in continental lake-covered streams and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf, equatorial, and transoceanic currents: water hoses, artesian wells, eruptions, currents, eddies, gushes, spots, floodgates, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, cloudbursts. rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments, exemplified by a well at the hole in the wall of the Ashtown gate, the saturation of the air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, the two constituents of hydrogen, one of which is oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in water, the permeability of Denedeling sea water, the water of eternal streams. inadequate dams, leaks on board a ship: its properties purifying, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and example: its metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in stiff hydrants: its various forms of bbights and gulstss and gulstss and sguights. lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and low tides and tidal estuaries and arms: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, ice ships: its flexibility in working hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleaching plants, estuaries, dance works as navigable, floating and inclined docks: its potential arising from applied tides or of watercourses falling from level to level: its underwater fleet fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, inhabitants of the earth: its ubiquity is 90% of its unfavorable human body: plague stories, faded flower water, stagnant pools on the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated New York's St. John the Divine at the Cathedral from The Value of Water, which confirmed the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the United Nations recognizing access to water and sanitation as a human right, charity WaterAid commissioned 10 visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. A parody of nitrous oxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in several hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983 when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was about safety issues with the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used as a sort of catchphrase or adlib by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done it include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Continue reading
External links

World Water Data Sheet
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
A portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water online
The structure and science of water Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary