Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of Earth's currents, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living things, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance throughout the world, and its high polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are quite close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made up of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, seas and oceans make up the largest part of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in Antarctic and Greenland glaciers and ice caps (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans is used for agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been and continues to be the main source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for various substances, both mineral and organic; thus, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and cleaning. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, from Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or,' suffixed *wod-or,'; Also, through the Indo-European root, Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian vắj. History
on the ground
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. It is a tasteless and odorless liquid at room temperature, almost colorless with a blue tinge. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": because water found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal conditions on earth. the states
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names of the chemical compound H2O; It is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, which is water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). The density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; It is the only known natural substance that occurs while it is liquid. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it attains a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which point its density is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and turns into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of shrinking and densifying as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would die in the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat in the planet's oceans. magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, significant interaction can be achieved with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can become vapor by evaporating at its surface (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, accumulating in an aerosol particle or ice core as snowflakes form. In the process of freezing, a food is frozen and then stored under low pressure, the ice on its surface is sublimated. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. For most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lowered. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur beneath a thick enough volume of ice, resulting in the formation of subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase is much less dense than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point drops by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple points and criticals
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gas and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in various applications in high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and many more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, face-centered cubic and superionic phase ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave, which raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between the graphene layers, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Clean water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can feel water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, ordinary spring water (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances, which can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid salty or rotten water. Color and appearance
Pure water is blue due to regional light absorption c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed on a plain white background in broad daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with a swimming pool, when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, as the higher intensity of the low tones in water means that short-path glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path of about 25 μm is required. Likewise, the cuvette must be transparent at around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a common material for aqueous cuvette windows. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live hundreds of meters deep in water where sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two edges of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. On the other two edges there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the folded structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide; the latter gives the acidity of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living things, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they are insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that holds molecules together in most liquids. Therefore, the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptional specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond of 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of this is attributable to electrostatics, and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, have this property. Autoionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH– equilibrium exists, along with the dissolution of the hydronium and hydroxide ions that are formed. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when it dissolves a small amount of ionic material, such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water only experiences a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 to 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. on the ground
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water across the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, the glaciology of glaciers, the limnology of inland waters and the distribution of oceans, oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or well. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and groundwater pressure causes fault patterns. Mantle water is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for the sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. The accumulation of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water is constantly moving through each of these regions in the water cycle through the following transfer processes:

emission from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. discharges from land to sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean is returned to it, but winds carry water vapor to land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration over land masses contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on the earth's surface, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high density water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, before the sun rises and the surface temperature starts to rise. Condensed water in the air can refract sunlight to create rainbows. Runoff often collects in watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment by creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for settlement. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, when a river overflows its banks or when a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a long month or year when a region experiences a lack of water supply. This happens when a region consistently receives average rainfall, both because of its topography and its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to humans, for example as a supply of drinking water or a source of water for irrigation. Water occurs as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and as ice and snow. It is estimated that 69 percent of the total volume of fresh water worldwide is stored in glaciers and permanent snow caps; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and water. The length of time that water is stored is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can change seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet ones. A large part of the water supply in some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in reserves, and when the withdrawal exceeds the recharge, the reserves are depleted. According to some estimates, 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from permanent groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the main seas ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake). Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and create oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides in a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun, along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of shoreline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the tidal oceans. Influences on life
From a biological point of view, water has several properties that are essential for the reproduction of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately enables replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve, and as an essential part of many of the body's metabolic processes. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (using the energy required by enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (such as starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (such as glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids for energy use or fuel for other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture energy from the sun and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, ie a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−), to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal situation. Acids have pH values ​​below 7 and bases have pH values ​​above 7. Aquatic lifestyles
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The first life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of their lives on land. Plants such as algae and seaweed grow in water and are the foundation of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to get oxygen to survive, and they do it in different ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have many modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated water, breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, a so-called cradle of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (3300 BC - 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe in part to easy accessibility by water and the consequent expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places where water is scarcer, such as in North Africa and the Middle East, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation or by other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is referred to by other names as potable or non-drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make bathing or drinking water safe. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm chlorine for bathing water that has not yet reacted with impurities). Bathing water can be maintained in good microbiological conditions by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of turning wastewater (also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce nations, meaning each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) each year. Every year 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of urban wastewater is generated worldwide. Fresh water is a renewable resource that is recirculated through the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressures to access it are naturally uneven in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Today, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set water Millennium Development Goals to halve the proportion of people without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; About five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all urban wastewater still flows unexamined into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with approximately one-third of the world's population, suffer from moderate to severe water scarcity, and 17 of them withdraw more water each year than is recharged through natural water cycles. Stress not only affects surface fresh water bodies like rivers and lakes, but also degrades underground resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most important human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the majority of "consumed" water (that which is used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for water collection, purification and supply, and wastewater disposal. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concern about water problems, increasing competition for fixed water resources, creating the concept of water scarcity. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-hungry meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries grow, new water challenges may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Institute for Water Management in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough to feed a growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations experiencing water scarcity. According to this, a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce enough food in the future, but continuing current food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industry and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - the equivalent of a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is already consumed in regions at risk of water scarcity. It has caused significant environmental damage: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth of a cubic meter at the melting temperature of ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was needed. Therefore, work was ordered to precisely determine the mass of a liter of water. Although Gram's definition defined water as 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest water density, which at the time was measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mainly composed of hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16 isotopes, but there are also heavier isotopes of oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. to drink
The human body is on average 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is ingested through food or drink other than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors a lower intake, typically one liter of water for another male, minus additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress, such as exercise, reduces this amount. People can drink more water than they should while exercising, risking water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake per meal, especially 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz), was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original 1945 recommendation for water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "A common standard for most people is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." In general, the latest dietary reference report by the US National Research Council recommends, based on US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, with approximately 19% of food intake in water. survey Specifically, pregnant and lactating women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women 3 liters (12 cups), as large amounts of fluid are lost during nursing. It has also been noted that usually around 20% of water intake comes from food, and the rest from drinking water and drinks (including caffeinated drinks). Water is excreted from the body in various forms; through urine and faeces, through sweat and through inhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and desirable to enhance flavor and provide needed electrolytes. The largest source of fresh water suitable for drinking (by volume) is Lake Baikal in Siberia. cleaning
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds that are closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve reagents well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Likewise, the acceleration of the Diels-Alder reactions of water has been observed. Supercritical water has been the subject of recent research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange because of their availability and high heat capacity for both cooling and heating. Fresh water may be available naturally from a lake or sea. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through evaporation and condensation because of the high latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or evaporate it in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and moderator. This provides a measure of passive safety, as removing water from the reactor slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping a reaction are preferred and keeping the nuclear core covered with water is preferable to ensure adequate cooling. Reflections on fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on top of the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water for firefighting must also take into account the risks of a steam explosion, when water is used very hot in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon, such as coal, coal or coke graphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water involved was not fireproof, but from the water cooling system of the reactor itself. A steam explosion occurred when overheating of the core caused the water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion can occur as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline-earth quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a bulk substance often transported in paper bags. If these get wet, they can catch fire as the contents react with the water. recreation
Humans use water for a variety of recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports are played on the ice, such as ice hockey and ice skating. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other water features are popular decorations. Some people keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, and the water must be at a low temperature in the form of ice or snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection cisterns, water supply networks and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is collected in springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right places is therefore one possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This may involve removing undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, delivered by tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to the poor. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a polluter limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this is not included in standard market cost accounting, as it is thought of as an externality that the market cannot take into account. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, and the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, while they are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or using equipment to clean or process products. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large quantities of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate energy. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectricity. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Usually, a dam is built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is quite safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used to cool the machinery to prevent overheating, or to prevent the saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses various purification techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a large amount of water, so the spread of AI "could threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and cooking are popular cooking methods that often require immersion of food in water or its gaseous state, steam. The water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51°C (0.918°F), and one mole of salt by 1.02°C (1.836°F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity: This is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it is less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (USA). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef needs 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
in the universe
Much of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation involves a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water forms rapidly in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been present in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably also abundant in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar components. Water vapor
Water exists as steam:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% more than the total atmosphere, usually 1-4% at the surface
The Moon's Atmosphere: In Traces
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - in traces below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, including those of Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: These are not limited to cooler stars and have also been detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. liquid water
There is liquid water on Earth, it covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also present in small amounts on Mars from time to time. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer ocean, 30-40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus' south polar surface, and on Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Jupiter's moon Ganymede may also contain liquid water as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water is in the form of ice:

 Mars: Below the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice layers on Earth and Moon craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it's also likely to include:

The poles of Mercury
Thetis

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably make up a large part of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deepest layers can exist as ionic water, where the molecules are broken into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float inside the oxygen. Water and the habitability of the planet
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are essential for life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to exist at the same time would be much less. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity holds the atmosphere, including the moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps keep the surface temperature relatively stable when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the atmospheric pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was seen in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and damages biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be water-based vulnerable. A November 2009 report suggests that by 2030, in some regions of the developing world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water since 1990. It is estimated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted as effectively by donors in the water sector as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and underperforming recipient governments. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cited poor governance as a cause of some of the causes of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply "blueprints" that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is an example; A review of policies by the International Water Management Institute in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's water bill was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-borne diseases, often linked to a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. The population of urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been considered endemic, due to excessive consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or severe water stress. However, in the last 40 years, water consumption has grown by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, and flooding in northern mid-latitudes has increased 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. The conventions related to water are: the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day will be celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water failure", since the 1990s more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries with water insecurity, at least one month for 4 billion people and at minimal cost. 307,000 billion dollars per year. It called for policies more in line with reality than with the rules of the past. in culture
religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that include ritual cleansing (ablutions) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion of a person in water (or immersion or afusa) is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, the dead are ritually bathed in clean water in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to cleanse a person or an area (for example, in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest as a means of baptism, the blessing of people, places and objects, or the warding off of evil. In Zoroastrianism water (āb) is revered as the source of life. philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and he considered it the ylema or basic substance of the universe. Aristotle figured as an astronomer and engineer Thales theorized that earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, the monist, believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron, which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associated water with phlegm as cold and damp. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as their model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says: "The highest excellence is like water. The excellence of water is manifested in its benefiting all things, and in its occupation, without effort (on the contrary), the low place disliked by all men. Therefore (its way) is near (to) the Tao and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet there is no strong thread to attack things that are strong and preferred that can be given to him, for there is nothing (so effective) that can be changed." Attributing the natural characteristics of people in different regions of China to the nature of their water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of reviving the dead. Consider the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The fountain of youth represents a concept related to magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In the seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not a mere "monotonous chain of events" but its phrases, like their theme, "leap and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until the finale is struck with the "calm of pestilence, faded flower-water, still pool, no trace of the moon's passage. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of elevating all the jumble of information accumulated in schoolbooks into poetry." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "everlasting and changing life," and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn referred to in full. What did Bloom admire, the water-drawer, the water-drawer, the water-carrier returning to the range? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy of character to its level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its sourceless depth exceeding 8,000 fathoms in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific Ocean: its surface waves and visiting every turning point. shore: independence of its units: variability of sea states: its hydrostatic calmness in low tides: its hydrokinetic spring stiffness in spring tides: its subsidence after disaster: sterility in circumpolar, arctic and antarctic ice-packs: its climatic and commercial significance: predominance of 3 in the square where dry land can be spread. Throughout the region below the sub-equatorial Tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulous bed: its power of dissolving and holding in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: the slow erosions of the peninsulas and the subsiding promontories: its alluvial deposits: its great weight and volume and instability its gradation of colors in hot and warm zones and frosts: of its vehicles the ramification included the streams and ocean currents in the continental lake with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: in the gulf, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in sea earthquakes, water spouts, artesian pools, eruptions, earth pits, eddies of water in eddies, geysers, cataracts, eddies, maelstroms, floods, deluges, cloud-bursts: its horizontal curve surrounding vast land: its secret in springs, and hidden moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments and the example of the well in the pit of the city of Ash: the simplicity of the saturation of the air, the simplicity of the distillation. its composition, two components of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its permanent penetration in waterways, ravines, improper dams, spills in the vessel: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, as nourishing vegetation, its paradigm and metamorph: fog, cloud, rain, snow, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its diversity of forms in land and bays and in gulfs and inlets and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and inlets and estuaries and arms of the sea: its strength: in glacial, ice operation mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleach plants, tanneries, boats: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and wharves: its potential in tide-harvested or it can be derived from the watercourses that fall from level to level: the ubiquity of its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic, literally, the number of its inhabitants) that it constitutes 90% of the human body: the harmful effects of its emissions in marshy lakes, plagues, faded flower waters, stagnant pools in the crescent moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, anchoring the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral, it brought together more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN's declaration of water and sanitation as a human right, WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to demonstrate the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story contained safety concerns about the substance. music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
The mentioned works
Further reading
External links

World Water Fact Sheet
FAO Integrated Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal of World Bank strategy, work and water resources publications
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water online
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022, at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary