Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds that contribute greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital for all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are formed by suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth's surface, and seas and oceans make up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water are found as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continually moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, and usually reaches the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. Approximately 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fisheries in fresh and saltwater bodies have been, and continue to be, an important source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much long-distance commodity trade (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by ships across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; As such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also essential for many sports and other forms of entertainment, including swimming, recreational boating, boating, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffixed form of the root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also cognate, through the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History
on earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water as it is found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidan, water is one of the two official names of the chemical compound H2O; It is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or vapor. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; It is the only known substance of natural origin that does so in a liquid state. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cubic foot) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0°C (32°F), water expands (becoming less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98°C (39.16°F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of shrinking and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms residing in the lakes would die during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat throughout the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, a remarkable interaction can be achieved with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0°C (32°F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100°C (212°F). However, even below the boiling point, water can become vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or an ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on its surface is sublimed. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation to the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              re
              t
            
            
              re
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              t
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      l
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      Yes
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              l
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            l
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            Yes
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          l
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when fusion occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 401°F (205°C) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. At hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400°C (752°F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100°C (212°F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. On the contrary, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points. In a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate the solid from the vapor, the vapor from the liquid, and the liquid from the solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); It is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; Its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Ice and water phases. The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. Through 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the drinkability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the c region. 600 to 800nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are shades of O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, as the higher intensity of the lower hues of water means that glass cuvettes with a short path can be used. To observe the fundamental stretch absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3500 cm-1 (2.85 μm), a path length of approximately 25 μm is needed. Furthermore, the cuvette must be transparent at about 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for the windows of cuvettes containing aqueous solutions. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms make an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are near two vertices of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the curved structure, this gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide; the latter produces the effervescence of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils, and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (approximately 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (approximately 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to an O-H covalent bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Autoionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis. Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it, a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility varies from 4.4 to 5.1×10-10 Pa-1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (approximately 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental detection (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. on earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of continental waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are in the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found above, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1,386 million cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Mantle water is responsible for the melting that occurs in volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which constitute the geological record of Earth's history. water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water perpetually moves through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from terrestrial plants and animals into the air. precipitation, coming from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. Land runoff usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring on land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, has several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew are small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor encounters a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before dawn, and when the Earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Water condensed in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff water often accumulates over basins that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment by creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich, level soil for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is a prolonged period of months or years in which a region notices a deficiency in its water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below-average rainfall, either due to its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water comes in both “stocks” and “flows.” Water can be stored in the form of lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow caps; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water is stored is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A substantial fraction of some regions' water supply consists of water withdrawn from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, reserves decline. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus minor amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from those of freshwater in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (approximately -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at a temperature above the freezing point. Water salinity in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of 30 to 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.) Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine bodies of water and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The tidal change at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of coastline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes are dissolved and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds and generate smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate hydrogen from water and oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture energy from the sun and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzymatic function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, i.e. a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor, such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values ​​less than 7, while bases have values ​​greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are full of life. The first forms of life appeared in water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and others on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive and they do so in various ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including respiratory tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Effects on human civilization
Historically, civilization has flourished around major rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian River Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, like Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to drinking water was and is an important factor for human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or drinking water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called various names in addition to potable or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe or "bathing safe" water. Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and generally controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1 to 2 ppm of chlorine that has not yet reacted with impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people residing in water-scarce countries, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. Each year 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cubic feet) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it result from naturally unequal distribution in space and time, the increasing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and increasing populations. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals on water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal was uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and sanitation are deadly; About five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of them annually extract more water than they replenish through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
agriculture
The most important human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water extracted for use goes to irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and distribute water, and dispose of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concern about water issues, leading to greater competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increase, new water-related challenges are likely to emerge. In 2007, the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka carried out an assessment of water management in agriculture to see if the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped places experiencing water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, lives in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce needed food in the future, but that continued food production and current environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also due to the production of products that consume a lot of water. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton, equivalent to one pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is consumed in regions already at risk of water shortages. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to the "absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and to the temperature of melted ice." However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard was needed, a thousand times more massive: the kilogram. For this reason, work was commissioned to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Although the decreed definition of the gram specified water at 0°C (32°F), a highly reproducible temperature, scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of water's highest density, which at the time was measured as 4°C (39°F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined based on the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is composed primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of the water. River and lake water tends to contain lighter isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna specification on standard mean ocean water. to drink
The human body contains, on average, between 50% and 60% water, depending on age, sex and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gallons) for women. The precise amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is ingested through food or drinks other than pure water. Medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" appears to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that additional water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtime, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "An ordinary standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest US National Research Council Dietary Reference Intake report generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that the water contained in food provided approximately 19% of the total water intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should consume 3 liters (12 cups), since an especially large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also observed that normally, around 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and feces, through sweat and through the exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve flavor and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest freshwater resource (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. wash
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and, less frequently, as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Furthermore, the acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water effectively burns organic contaminants. heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, for both cooling and heating. There may even be cold water available naturally in a lake or the sea. It is especially effective in transporting heat through vaporization and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper rust faster with untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a coolant (used to exchange waste heat into a mass of water or transport it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants is the largest use of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a sort of passive safety measure, since removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping a reaction are preferred and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire Considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of water draws heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float in water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot coal such as coal, charcoal or coking graphite, break down water and produce gaseous water. The power of this type of explosions was evident in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from the extinguishing media but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when reacting with water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If they become soaked, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of them include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. Additionally, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lake shores, beaches, and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. Humans also use water to practice snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water to be at a low temperature, either in the form of ice or crystallized into snow. water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to homes and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers and water pipelines, including ancient aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Therefore, building more wells in suitable locations is one possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can supply adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is through municipal water systems, delivery by tanker trucks or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need at no cost. Another option is to reduce use by using potable (potable) water for human consumption only. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution may be the biggest misuse of water; To the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs, since it is conceived as externalities that the market cannot take into account. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed among the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes depend on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water sludge, or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectric energy. Hydroelectric energy comes from water that drives a hydraulic turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a renewable, non-polluting and low-cost source of energy. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Typically a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water leaving the lake passes through turbines that spin generators. Pressurized water is used in water jet cleaning and water jet cutting machines. High pressure water guns are used to make precise cuts. It works very well, is relatively safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes spilled solutes (chemical pollution) and spilled cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten national and global water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water increases the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F) and one mole of salt per kg increases the boiling point of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the amount of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as a relationship between the vapor pressure of water in a solution and the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity; This is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also its preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated through the use of a chemical ion exchange system. It can drastically affect the quality of a product, as well as playing a role in sanitation. The hardness of water is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate it contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (USA). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
in the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outflow of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is produced rapidly in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery demonstrates that water has been present in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably also exists in abundance in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar ingredients. water vapor
Water is present in the form of vapor in:

Sun's atmosphere: in detectable traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere. Venus atmosphere: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the total atmosphere, normally between 1% and 4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Ceres atmosphere
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus atmosphere – in minimal quantities below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere: found in the deepest layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: It is not limited to cooler stars and is even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe there is liquid water on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean approximately 30-40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus' south pole, and on Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an ocean of liquid water beneath the surface. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between ice and rock at high pressure. water ice
Water is present in the form of ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks. NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon System
Comets and other objects related to the Kuiper Belt and the Oort Cloud
And it is likely to also be present in:

The poles of Mercury
Thetis

exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which molecules are broken down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which oxygen crystallizes, but hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were a little closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to maintain an atmosphere, including air humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water it contains can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, particularly freshwater, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes impacts on health and damage to biodiversity. Access to drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation services. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report published in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a source of safe water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there is enough water for everyone", but that access to she is hampered by mismanagement. and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by water sector donors as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments disempowered to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply "models" that work in the developed world to locations and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that comprehensive and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's water bill was much more complex than necessary. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed health services. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity in 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by around 1% annually and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased 2.5-fold. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management carries out projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, 4 billion people experience water shortages for at least one month a year, and droughts cost 307 billion dollars a year. He called for policies that adjust to reality and not to the norms of the past. in culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or pouring) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); It is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shintoism, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptizing, blessing people, places and objects, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as a source of life. Philosophy
The Greek philosopher Empedocles viewed water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and considered it a ylem or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the Earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron, which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, because it was cold and humid. The classical element water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its benefit to all things and in its occupation, without striving (on the contrary), in the low place which all men dislike. Therefore (its path) is near (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and strong it is not "There is nothing that can take priority, because there is nothing (as effective) that can be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 elaborates further on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing natural qualities of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources. "Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of resurrecting the dead. Consider the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy between living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply a "monotonous series of events," but its phrases, like its theme, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they settle into the quiet stillness of the final 'pestilential swamps, water of faded flowers, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" The hymn is considered one of the most notable passages from Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, it achieves "the improbable feat of turning into poetry all the clutter of trivial information that has accumulated in school books." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal and ever-changing life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in its entirety. What the hell did Bloom admire, lover of water, drawer of water, water bearer who returned to the mountain range? Its universality: its democratic equality and its constancy in nature in the search for its own level: its immensity in the ocean of the Mercator projection: its unfathomable depth in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific that exceeds 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles that in turn visit all points of its coastline: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its calm hydrostatic stillness: its turgor hydrokinetics in neap and spring tides: its sinking after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar, arctic and antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3 to 1 preponderance over the dry land of the globe: its indisputable hegemony extending in square leagues over the entire region under the sub-equatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its basin primitive: its luteofulvo bed: its capacity to dissolve and maintain in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and promontories that tend downwards: its alluvial deposits: its weight, volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and mountain lakes: its gradation of colors in torrid, temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular ramifications in lakes continental streams and confluent rivers that flow oceanic with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: Gulf Stream, northern and southern equatorial courses: their violence in earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, floods, floods, tidal waves, hydrographic basins, watersheds, geysers, waterfalls, eddies, whirlpools, floods, deluges, showers: its vast circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its secrecy in the springs and its latent humidity, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well of the hole in the wall of the Ashtown gate, the saturation of the air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its curative virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its its persevering penetrability in streams, ravines, inadequate dams, leaks on board: its properties to cleanse, quench thirst and fire, nourish vegetation: its infallibility as a paradigm and model: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and inlets and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility in the operation of hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleaching plants, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and tomb docks: its derivable potential from harnessed tides or the watercourses that fall from level to level: their underwater fauna and flora (anaacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: their ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of their effluvia in the lake marshes, the pestilent swamps, the water of discolored flowers, the stagnant ponds on the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever presented at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernández and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an eco-friendly collective of artists using water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN's declaration of access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes that mock scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a Durand, Michigan newspaper. The false story consisted of concerns about the safety of the substance. music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Additional reading
External links

The World Water Facts Page
Complete FAO water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Timeline: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and associated publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine. Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine. "Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine. H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary