Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, despite not providing dietary energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up most of the water volume (approximately 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and the ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, an important source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-form (or, 'w suffixed with water). Also related, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water, as found in nature, almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperatures; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does this while liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becoming less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), water volume decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cuft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would perish during the winter. In addition, this abnormal behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve remarkable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to steam at its surface by evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freezing process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so the ice on its surface sublimates. The melting points and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of the melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). Because atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. High altitude cooking takes longer than sea level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to decrease cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the surface of the Earth is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered-cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs can smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it various tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the drinkability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption groups responsible for the color are shades of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower shades of water means that glass cuvettes with a short path length can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region approximately 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of approximately 25 μm is necessary. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material that is in common use for the cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) of depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5° angle with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form a 109.5° angle, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving the puffiness of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules form protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a molecule of water in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting points and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate, storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are approximately 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% are attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% are partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is trusted by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that is exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water across the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of underground water is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are in the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate amount of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or puddle. The majority of water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of that groundwater affects patterns of faulting. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the surface of the earth. Deposition of transported sediment forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves forever through each of these regions in the water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from terrestrial plants and animals into the air. precipitation, of water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. runoff from the land usually reaching the sea. Most water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff into the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, has several forms: most often rain, snow, and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew are small drops of water that are condensed when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Water flow often collects over watersheds flowing into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when a region notes a shortage in its water supply. This happens when a region receives consistently below average precipitation either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural resources of water that are potentially useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or groundwater, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global fresh water, about 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can vary seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A large fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decrease. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable withdrawals from groundwater, causing groundwater depletion. Seawater and tides
Seawater contains approximately 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in a number of important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature toward the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in important seas varies from approximately 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its very high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal streams. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The strip of coastline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct characteristics that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills that role by allowing organic substances to react in ways that ultimately allow reproduction. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the energy of the sun to separate the hydrogen from water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to capture the solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e., proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered to be neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the Earth are full of life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and important waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC - c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and tributaries that flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Great metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of chlorine not yet reacted with impurities for bathing water). Water for bathing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of transforming wastewater (most often sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people who live in water-scarce nations, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cuft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it result from the naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and growing populations. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; approximately five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal sewage continues to be untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface fresh water bodies like rivers and lakes, but it also degrades underground water resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the great majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying and delivering water, and disposing of sewage. But increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water problems, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands increase for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped places suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where the lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet the demand for water. The report stated that in the future it will be possible to produce the needed food, but that a continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to strive to increase productivity to meet growing demands for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cuft) of water to produce. While cotton is responsible for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water shortage. Serious environmental damage was caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amudarya and Syrdarya rivers to produce cotton led to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes however, a metallic reference standard was required, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram. Work was therefore commissioned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F) - a very reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of highest water density, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of the heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. to drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is consumed through food or beverages other than drinking straight water. Medical literature favors a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average male, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the United States read: "An ordinary norm for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest dietary reference intake report of the US National Research Council generally recommended, based on the average total water consumption from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water in total for women, not total in water total 19% in food did not provide in total for women. the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as an especially large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It also notes that usually about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and faeces, through perspiration, and through exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. People require water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide needed electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions of water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, for both cooling and heating. Cool water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange the waste heat to a body of water or carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a bit of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are favored to stop a reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good firefighting fluid. The evaporation of water carries away heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. Use of water in firefighting should also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or kolagraphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in that case did not come from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, most notably those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. The alkaline earth oxide lime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can catch fire because their contents react with water. entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, cisterns for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are in development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, drawn from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate locations is thus a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods filter with sand, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, oil delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the poor for free. Reducing usage by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is extensively used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water can be the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter standard accounting of market costs, being conceived as externalities for which the market cannot be responsible. Thus other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of the private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in the waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated at sewage treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in aqueous slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause serious water pollution. Water is used in electricity generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water power. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. The energy is supplied by the movement of water. Typically a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in the cooling of machinery to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Effluent of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various cleaning techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a large amount of water, so AI expansion can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles within the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutions in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutions in water lower water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food storage and preservation. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can drastically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a by-product of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong external wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material finally hits the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this hot dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water was common in the universe during almost all of its existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and that of other star systems, most other planetary systems are believed to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in the outer atmosphere of Mercury
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above full atmosphere, typically 1-4% at surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ices; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ices; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deeper layers
Exoplanet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mostly as an ice sheet on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europe and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And also probably present on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably make up much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are essential for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as it was observed on exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but about one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report said that "other water is sufficient for all". hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by water sector donors as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without empowerment to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as one cause of some forms of water scarcity. Water management is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Sometimes mistakes have been made trying to apply "skills" that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN's World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided policymakers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of large lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, 4 billion people experience at least one month and 4 billion people cost per year. $307 billion per year. It called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Beliefs that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or sprinkling or influx) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), if water is not unavailable (see Tayammum). In Shintoism, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (eg, in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of persons, places, and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and regarded it as ylemo or the basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle presented as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from the water. Thales, a monist, further believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with mucus, as being cold and moist. The classic element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its taking advantage of all things, and in its occupying, without striving (against), the low place which all men despise. Therefore (its manner) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and strong, there is nothing that can surpass it—for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地, further proclaims the symbol of water "and expands the chapter on water". attributing natural qualities of the people of various Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters believed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its sentences, like their subject, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they subside in the quiet stillness of the conclusion "pestilent marshes, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the declining pools in the most declining remark of the monetary passage" are considered. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, realizes "the improbable a feat of raising to poetry the whole mess of basic information that has accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What in water did Bloom, water-lover, drawer, water-carrier returning to the mountain range, admire? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in search of its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 fathoms: its undisturbed surfaces of its constituents visited by the undisturbed points of its waves in the surface of its constituents. coast: the independence of its units: the changeability of sea states: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after ruin: its barrenness in the circumpolar ice-caps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its preponderance of 3 to 1 disputable square on the globe extendable over the dry globe. connections over the whole region below the sub-equatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primordial basin: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances inclusive of millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and descending foothills: its alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and imperturbability: its gradation of colors in the hot and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular ramifications in continental lake contained streams and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf stream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in sea-terms, water currents, artesian wells, eruptions, fresh torrents, eddies, water currents; water parting, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, deluges, clouds: its vast circum-terrestrial horizontal curve: its secrecy in springs, and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomant or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well at the hole of the air city, distillation of air in the wall of ash, simplicity in the wall of saturation, discovery of rhabdomant or hygrometric instruments. its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetrability in curelles, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on board: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing: its vegetation as paradigm and metamorphs: its metamorphosis: fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and gulfs and gulfs and gulfs and bowels and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, working hydrauiceberg its glacier, hydrauicesberg its solidity mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, white factories, tanneries, shake mills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and engraving docks: its potential to be derived from harnessed tides or water currents falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, the photophobe) of the number, literally the globephobe: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the harm of its effluents in lacustrine marshes, faded flower waters, stagnant ponds in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, which anchored the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. That name was used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

The World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water Science School (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and related publications
America Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water in the network
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary