Water is an inorganic substance with the chemical formula H2O. It is clear, tasteless, odorless, and virtually colorless. It is the core of the Earth’s rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living things, in which it acts as a medicine. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a large part of its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known species, although it does not provide food energy or is an inorganic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its universal abundance, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecule size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure of Earth’s surface is slightly closer to three times that of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are composed of suspended water and ice, its solid form. If properly distributed, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The state of water vapor is either vapor or water vapor. Approximately 71% of the Earth’s surface is covered by water, with oceans and seas making up the bulk of water (approximately 96.5%). Water fractions occur as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and glaciers in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapour, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water), and rain (0.001%). Water moves constantly through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, rainfall, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, an important source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Ships carry most of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used to provide cooling and heating in industrial and residential areas. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial applications and cooking and laundry. Water, ice, and snow are also essential in other forms of sports and recreation, such as swimming, recreational boating, canoeing, surf racing, sport fishing, diving, skiing, snowboarding, and snowboarding. Etymology
Word water from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, root suffixed form of *wed- . ('old'). Also, through Indo-European roots, is related to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. History
On the Earth
The possessions of the
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a slight blue tinge. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied compound and is sometimes described as a "universal compound" because of its ability to dissolve more than any other liquid, although it reacts poorly in solutions of non-polar compounds. This enables it to be the "spice of life": in fact, water as found in nature almost always involves a variety of solutes, and special precautions are necessary to obtain chemically charged water. Water is the only common element that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal geological conditions. Countries
In addition to oxidane, water is one of two official names for the chemical H2O; it is also the aqueous phase of H2O. Two other common properties of the state of water are the solid, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or vapor. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (liquid to ice), evaporation (liquid to liquid), evaporation (liquid to vapor), evaporation (vapor to liquid), sublimation (ice to ice) and freezing (vapor to ice). Density density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and loses solidity as it cools at certain temperatures; it is the only substance known to exist in nature that does this while it is liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that its viscosity decreases dramatically as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less viscous) until it reaches freezing point, where its viscosity is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When water freezes and freezes, water expands by about 9%, reaching 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the typical behavior of coagulation and becoming more dense as it cools. These unusual temperature conditions have serious consequences for life on land. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on top, floating. This ice traps the water below, preventing it from freezing hard. Without this protection, most aquatic life in lakes will perish in winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermal cycle that distributes heat to the planet’s oceans. Magnetic field strength
Water is diamagnetic. Although coupling is weak, if the most conductive magnets can achieve significant coupling. Changes of role
At one atmospheric pressure (atm), ice melts or freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor forms at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the vapor pressure of water, it can be converted to vapor at its surface by evaporation (the evaporation of the whole liquid is called vaporization). Sublimation and deposition also occur at the surface. For example, temperate climates are cold as snowflakes are formed by condensation on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In freezing, a food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on it melts. How and where it strikes depends on pressure. The Clausius–Clapeyron relation is given by:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L. −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L. f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\visual style {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\ left (v_{\text {L}}-v_{\text {S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where the 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L. {\visual style v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\visual style v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L. f
          
        
      
    
    {\visual style L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of solution. In most materials, the volume increases with friction, so the melting point increases with pressure. However, because ice is less viscous than water, the freezing temperature decreases. In glaciers, the pressure of equal volumes of ice can melt, creating subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but in the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can be in the liquid state when there is intense heat in the seabed or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal pits, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the temperature of water is 100 °C (212 °F). If atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the temperature decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to obtain the desired result. On the other hand, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by reducing the heat applied. Under vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three words and points
In the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see diagram), the dividing lines between solid and vapor, vapor and liquid, and liquid and solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three components can coexist. The third point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the third place is used to define the Kelvin scale. The liquid/vapor phase curve ended at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the main word. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called critical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gaseous and liquid phases; its properties (quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to its weight. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures, it can miscible freely with nonpolar materials, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as a bio-friendly solvent or catalyst in organic chemical reactions. In the Earth’s mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and sedimentation. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on the Earth’s surface is ice Ih, the phase that forms equilateral hexagonal crystals. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, cyclic Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms additional crystals. In 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and many more are theoretically predicted. The fifteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, a medium-cubic, uppermost phase, was discovered when a drop of water was added to a wave that raised the pressure to millions of atmospheres and the temperature to thousands of degrees, creating the formation of solid oxygen atoms with free flow of hydrogen atoms. When ice accumulates between layers of graphene, it forms a circular groove. The chemical properties of liquid water are poorly understood; some theories attribute its unusual behavior to the presence of two states of water. Taste and aroma
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water often contains many dissolved substances (including mineral water) that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed sensory systems that allow them to evaluate water intake to avoid water that is too salty or dry. Color and appearance
Pure water is visible blue due to the absorption of light in the environment c. 600–800 nm diameter. The color can be easily seen on a mug of tap water placed on a clean white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the surrounding resonances of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. For example, this is also applicable for a swimming pool if the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. Naturally, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher amplitude of the bottom resonances of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the main expansion time of water or liquid in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette should be transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and insoluble; calcium fluoride is one of the most commonly used materials for cuvette windows. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be obtained with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans less than 1,000 meters deep. The reflectivity of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass forms (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index (1.31) of ice is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with an oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of an oxygen-centered tetrahedron. The other two corners contain lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example, methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electron-negative than most other substances, so an oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while a hydrogen atom has a positive partial charge. In addition to forming a junction, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is an excellent polar solvent, preferring many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also absorbs a lot of gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many biological substances, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are water soluble. The interaction between water and the particles of these biomacromolecules modulates protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic compounds (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force of molecular attraction in most liquids. This is why the viscosity and boiling point of water are much higher than those of other similar chemicals such as hydrogen sulfide. Its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (approximately 4.2 J/(g·K)), thermal conductivity (approximately 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)) are also explained. These properties make water more effective in mitigating Earth’s climate, by storing and transferring heat between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, 90% is estimated to be due to electrostatic action, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These interactions are responsible for the surface tension of water and the strong capillary strength. Vasculature refers to the tendency of water to move upward in a flat tube against the force of gravity. On this condition all vascular plants, such as trees, rely. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, added to the solution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrical conductivity
Pure water has a lower electrical conductivity, which increases with the solubility of a small ionic compound such as common salt. Water in water can be separated into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more input energy than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Technical characteristics
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its viscosity ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume loss is only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with minimal energy release, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a feature that bats and humans use for communication with environmental cues (sonar). The act of reacting
Metals that are more electrical than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, form hydroxide and release hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with heat to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. Hydrology is the study of water distribution. The study of groundwater distribution and movement is hydrogeology, the study of glaciers is glaciology, the study of groundwater is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecosystem processes and hydrology in the context of ecohydrology. The masses of water found on, below, and above a planet are called water masses. The earth’s water capacity (global water) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or puddles. Most of the water on Earth is ocean water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in the solid, liquid, and vapor forms. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Most rocks contain groundwater, and the pressure of this groundwater affects the rate of degradation. Water in the mantle is responsible for the heat that produces volcanic eruptions in volcanic regions. At the Earth’s surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for transporting large amounts of ice to the surface. Sedimentation of transported sediments creates many types of glacial rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known in science as the water cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the water cycle, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these zones in a hydraulic cycle that includes the following exchange processes:

emissions from oceans and other bodies of water to the atmosphere and emissions from terrestrial plants and animals. rainfall, is caused by water vapor condensing from the air and falling into the ground or sea. water often flowing from land to sea. Most water vapor found mostly in the ocean is convected inward, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and convection occurring at the latitude also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, which amounts to 119 Tt per year on earth, has several forms: usually rain, snow, and hail, with a small contribution of fog and dew. Dewdrops are small droplets of water that form when high water vapor contacts a cold surface. Dew typically occurs in the morning when temperatures are lower, just before sunrise and when surface temperatures begin to rise. Water accumulation in the atmosphere can also distort sunlight into rainbows. Usually runoff over springs that flow into rivers. Through flooding, runoff modifies the environment creating river valleys and gullies that provide rich soil and open land for settlement. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years in which a region recognizes that it has insufficient water supplies. This occurs when an area consistently receives below-average rainfall due to its topography or longitude. Water resources
Aquifers are natural resources of water that can be useful to humans, for example, as drinking water or irrigation. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lake, water vapor, groundwater or aquifer, and ice and snow. Of the total global supply of fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent is in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and living things. The length of time water stays in storage is highly variable: some aquifers are reservoirs over thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can change seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large portion of the water supply in some areas is distilled from reservoirs, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, reservoir levels decrease. According to some estimates, 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, resulting in groundwater depletion. Ocean water and waves
The average seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride, along with other smaller quantities. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and increases in density as the temperature drops to freezing, instead of reaching maximum viscosity at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the high seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The reef, known for its high salinity of 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are cyclical rises and falls in local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of ocean and estuarine basins and create moving currents known as tidal streams. The rotating wave emitted at a point is the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth in addition to the effects of the rotation of the Earth and the local tide. The coastal zone that submerges at high tide and is exposed during high tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological source of ocean waves. The impact it has on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are essential for the growth of life. It fulfills this role by allowing cells to behave in ways that ultimately allow them to replicate. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is extremely important both as a solvent in which many of the body’s fluids accumulate and as an essential component of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy-required enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce small molecules (e.g., sugars, fats, and amino acids to be used as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these specialized metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is an essential element in both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate liquid hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use those fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun’s energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also an important factor in acid-base neutralization and enzymatic activity. Water, which is a hydrogen ion (H+, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−). Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative index of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 ideally. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic species
The surface waters of the earth are full of life. The first life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are often the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must take in oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of gills, although some species, such as gillfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals, must periodically float in order to breathe. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a variety of adaptations to survive in hypoxic waters including respiratory apparatus (see siphons of insects and snails) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in water, most of them have very little or no specialized aerobic activity. The impact on human culture
Historically, civilization flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The earliest Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the tributaries that flow out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber. The success of major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong was due in part to ease of access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. It is for the same reason that islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have proliferated. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is most scarce, access to safe drinking water has been and remains an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water that is fit for human consumption is called potable or potable water. Nonpotable water may be made potable by distillation or distillation, or by a variety of other means. Over 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing goes by different names other than potable or drinking water, and is sometimes referred to as fresh water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and lung irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine not yet reacted with contaminants for bathing water). Disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone may be used or the rinse water maintained in a satisfactory microbiological environment or by the use of incandescent light. Water recycling is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also known as municipal sewage) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters of water per year. A total of 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal sewage is generated worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recycled by the natural water cycle, but pressures on its supply stem from the uneven distribution of nature in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and the growing population. Currently, approximately one billion people worldwide lack access to affordable safe drinking water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to reduce the global access to safe water and sanitation by half by Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving safe and affordable water and sanitation for all by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation kill; about five million people die each year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal sewage still goes into local rivers and streams. Around 50 countries, comprising about a third of the world’s population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is recycled through their natural water cycle. This species not only affects fresh surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also groundwater. Human consumption
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all human use.In the United States, 42% of freshwater diverted for use is for irrigation, but most "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to safe water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for water collection, treatment, and transportation, and wastewater treatment. However, increasing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures have led to increasing concerns about water, increasing competition for sustainable water supplies, giving rise to the concept of surplus water. As populations and economies continue to grow, the consumption of thirsty animals increases, and the demand for new fuels or water-intensive industries increases, new water problems are likely to arise. The International Water Management Agency in Sri Lanka conducted an agricultural water use study in 2007 to determine if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It has assessed current water availability for agriculture globally and mapped areas facing water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion, lives in regions of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet every demand. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment or inadequate human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report shows that it is possible to produce food in the future, but if it rejects food production and environmental conditions continue it will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to work towards increasing productivity to meet rising demand for food, while industry and cities are looking for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by low-water production. Cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of one pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world’s water consumption, the water is used in areas already threatened by water scarcity. The environmental damage has been severe: for example, the Aral Sea has suffered severe losses due to the former Soviet Union’s diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795 the gram was defined in France as equal to "the volume of pure water equivalent to a cube of one hundred yards, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a control charge, a thousand times greater than the kilogram, is required. Therefore, the task is assigned to determine the exact volume of a liter of water. While the mandated definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the scale and make their measurements at a more saturated temperature, which was then measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin thermometer in the SI system is based on three times water, which is defined as precisely 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is instead based on the Boltzmann constant. A scale is an absolute thermometer with an increment equal to the Celsius thermometer, originally defined in terms of water temperature (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and viscosity (set at 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water consists primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects water properties. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have lighter heavy isotopes than ocean water. Conventional water is therefore defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. And of alcohol
The human body is, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, sex and body size, although individuals can have anywhere from 45% to 75%. U.S. The National Academy of Sciences, Technology, and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is consumed through food or drinks other than drinking plain water. The medical literature favors the lowest fluid intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, without additional requirements for fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this rate. People can drink more water than necessary when exercising, leading to water intoxication (hydration overload), which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking plenty of water, especially up to 500 ml (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps in preventing constipation. An initial award by the U.S. The Food and Nutrition Commission of the National Research Council established in 1945 regarding fluid intake reads: "The common standard for various populations is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in cooked foods." The latest food report by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The National Research Council did generally recommend, based on average water intakes from US study data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting all water consumed in about 19% of the study. Specifically, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should increase fluid intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and nursing women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. They also note that about 20% of water intake usually comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in different ways; by urine and feces, by perspiration, and by exhaled water vapor. With heavy exertion and heat, water loss will increase and daily water requirements may also increase. Humans need water with few pollutants. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and pathogens, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor and to provide the required electricity. The only larger (by volume) freshwater body suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. The clock
Transportation
Use of medications
Water is used extensively in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less frequently as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, preferring many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic chemistry, it is generally not used as a reaction solvent, as it is poorly reactive and amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these qualities are sometimes desirable. Also, a fast reaction of Diels-Alder by water was achieved. The more important water has recently been the subject of research. The vital oxygenated water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat transfer
Water and steam is a fluid commonly used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, for both cooling and heating. Cold water can be naturally available from a lake or even the ocean. It is very efficient to transfer heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are rapidly oxidized by untreated moisture and heat. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed passage between a boiler, a heater, and a condenser), and a refrigerant (used to exchange the waste heat to a fluid or transfer it through evaporation in a cooling system). In the United States, cooling power plants are the dominant source of water. In nuclear power plants, water can also be used as a nuclear insulator. In most nuclear reactors, water serves as both a coolant and a coolant. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nucleation process. However other methods are preferred for stopping a reaction and preferably the nucleation core is covered with water so as to ensure adequate cooling. Concepts of fire
Water has a high temperature and is slightly inert, making it an excellent fire extinguisher. Water vapor carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic sludge because there is a lot of organic matter floating on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in coal must also consider the risks of thermal explosions, which can occur when water is used over very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when reactants, such as certain metals or hot carbon like coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, releasing water gas. The effects of such explosions were seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case came not from coal but from the reactor’s own cooling system. An explosion occurred when the extreme temperatures in the inner core caused water to glow into steam. Possibly a hydrogen explosion due to the reaction of heat and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when they react with water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced product that often goes in paper bags. When these are injected, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Entertainment
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as exercise and sports. These include swimming, water skiing, canoeing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are practiced on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and appearance of running water soothing, and fountains and other cascading structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, recreation, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowshoeing or snowboarding, which require the water to freeze at low temperatures or crystallize into snow. Water utilities
Water utilities provide drinking water and wastewater (including wastewater treatment) to homes and businesses. Sources of water include wells, rain gutters, drains, and cisterns, cisterns, cisterns, water pumps including old waterways. Overhead springs are being created. Drinking water is usually collected in aquifers, drawn from artificial holes (wells) in the ground, or from lakes and rivers. Construction of more wells in convenient locations is therefore a viable way to obtain more water, assuming aquifers can provide sufficient water. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This may involve the removal of turbidity, turbidity and harmful microorganisms. Popular methods involve simply sanding the turbidity, while chlorination and grinding kill harmful microorganisms. Distillation does all three. There are more advanced methods, such as reverse osmosis. Bulk ocean water desalination is the most expensive solution used in a dry coastal climate. Distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, delivery of bottled water or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to the needy. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water for human consumption only is another approach. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, a lot of seawater is used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water. Water pollution may be the one and only misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other forms of pollution, this does not enter the normal calculation of transaction costs, it is assumed to be externalities that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, others pay the price for water pollution, while the benefits of the private sector are no longer distributed to the local population, which is affected by this pollution. Chemicals that humans eat often end up in waterways and can harm aquatic life if they accumulate in living things and if they cannot be harmed. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are typically treated in sewage treatment plants. Contaminated surface runoff mitigation is addressed through a variety of preventive and remedial measures. Industrial performance
Many industrial operations rely on processes that use solvents dissolved in water, adding solids to aqueous solutions or using water to dissolve and remove, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical spraying, tanning, paper manufacturing, textiles, dyeing, printing, and cooling of power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often lead to high levels of water pollution. Water is used in electricity generation. Hydropower is electricity generated from hydroelectric power. Hydraulic power comes from water driving a hydraulic system connected to a grid. Hydropower is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. The energy is supplied by the movement of water. A dam is usually built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The flow out of the lake is forced through turbines that change generators. Pressurized water is used in hydraulic heating and hydraulic systems. High-pressure guns are used for precision cutting. Very efficient, relatively safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used in mechanical cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent needle blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and devices, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollutants) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industries require clean water for many applications and use a variety of cleaning methods for both supply and discharge. The digital industry, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Stewing, steaming, and frying are popular cooking methods that often involve submerging food in water or its vapor gas. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of nutrition. Physical properties of water are affected by solutes such as salts and sugars in water. Condensation and ice areas are affected by water content, as well as by elevation. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the temperature of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the temperature of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of soluble particles decreases the freezing point of water. Solubility also affects the hydration process which influences many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. The work of water can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of liquid to the vapor pressure of pure water. Soluble materials decrease hydrolysis—this is important to know because most bacteria stop growing when hydrolysis is low. Microbial growth affects not only food safety but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be modified or produced using a chemical ion exchange system. It can significantly affect the quality of a product, as well as contributing to hygiene. Water hardness was classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is considered soft if the concentration is less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a 2010 report by the Water Footprint organization, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters of water (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal); however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and conditions determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical uses
Fluid injections are on the World Health Organization list of essential medicines. Division in nature
In the whole world
Most of the cosmic water is produced as part of the formation of stars. Star formation is accompanied by a strong external wind of gas and dust. When this emission eventually disrupts the surrounding gas, shock waves hit and heat the gas. The water obtained evaporates rapidly in this warm, warm gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described a massive cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" orbiting a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the finding suggests that water has been abundant almost universally throughout nearly its entire existence". Water has been found in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies as well, as its components, hydrogen, and oxygen, are among the most abundant in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other galaxies, it is likely that most other planets have similar materials. Water temperature
It contains water as a vapor in:

Solar Space: in small detectable amounts
Mercury’s atmosphere: 3.4%, with large amounts of water in Mercury’s periphery
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of total atmosphere, typically 1–4% of surface
Lunar Atmosphere: to a lesser extent
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
The climate of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn’s atmosphere – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean) . The atmosphere of Uranus – to a lesser extent below 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – found in deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. The atmosphere of a star: not only in the coolest stars and is also found in the hot superstars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and even Arcturus. Disks around stars: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as those of TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water with water in it
Water flooded the Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present on Mars in small amounts. Scientists believe that the Saturnian moons of Enceladus contain liquid water, as a 10 km thick ocean about 30–40 km beneath Enceladus’ southern orbit, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has geological features which mean that the underground ocean of water is a liquid. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. The cycle of water
Water is there as ice at:

 Mars: under regolith and on poles. Earth–Moon system: primarily as ice deposits on Earth and in the craters and volcanic rocks of the Moon NASA reported that the NASA Lunar Mining Map of the Indian Space Research Organization’s Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft discovered water molecules in September 2009. The name of Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also those of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it’s probably there too at:

The sticks of Mercury
The name of Tethys

Unusual circumstances
Water and other volatile matter probably make up most of the interior of Uranus and Neptune and water in deeper layers may be in ionized water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as surface water where the oxygen crystallizes. Water and planetary habitat
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid properties, on Earth is critical to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were relatively close to or far from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million miles), the conditions that allow the three states to exist simultaneously would be virtually non-existent. The mass of the earth also plays a role: its gravitational pull allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin atmospheres or none at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a thermal barrier (the greenhouse effect) that helps to maintain relatively constant temperatures when present in sufficient quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on atmospheric pressure, which is determined by the planet’s gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can solidify even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure exerted by gravity, as seen on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is the politics governed by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a universal approach and central to many political conflicts. It is harmful to health and biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion lack access to sanitation. But some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water risk. A report, released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to safe water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report said that there is "enough water for everyone", but that mismanagement and corruption impede its access. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Agreement on Aid Effectiveness, have not been as effective as watersheds in education and health, potentially leaving many aid workers in conflicting roles with recipient governments without power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Use in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the causes of some forms of water scarcity. Water governance consists of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water use are made. Effective water management is primarily concerned with identifying the policies that work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic environment. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply ‘policies’ that work in developed countries to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong is one example; six countries that rely on the Mekong for water policy regulation showed that detailed, detailed cost-benefit assessments and environmental impact assessments are rarely conducted. Cambodia’s water law was also found to be more stringent than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable waterborne diseases, often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO’s World Water Research Program, has provided decision-makers with tools for sustainable water policy development. According to the 2023 report, two billion people (26% of the population) lack access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely controlled sanitation. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is said to be a common phenomenon, due to overuse and pollution. According to the report, 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with moderate or severe water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased about 1% annually, and is expected to increase similarly through 2050. Since 2000, tropical flooding has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased 2.5-fold. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million.Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Association. The International Water Fund conducts projects with the goal of using water efficiently to reduce poverty. Conventions relating to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention against Ship Pollution, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day will take place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the UN declares that humanity has entered the "Water Breakdown" era as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have decreased since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-poor countries drought costs $307 billion annually. It requires systems that are consistent with reality rather than systems of the past. In the culture
Religious groups
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that have ritual ablutions (baths) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or immersion) is an important Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water for the dead is practiced in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing parts of the body using pure water (wudu), provided water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or area (e.g., in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water sprinkled by a priest for the purpose of baptizing, blessing people, places, and things, or as a means of banishing evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy of the World
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be ylem, or the essence of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle depicts as an astronomer and engineer, hypothesized that the earth, heavier than water, emerged from the water. Thales, a monist, believed further that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body relates water and moisture, being cold and wet. The traditional element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some advanced and popular Asian philosophical systems treat water as a symbol. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (its) water. Water's excellence is manifest in its beneficence to all things, and in its occupation, without effort (on the contrary), of a low place disliked by all men." Thus (his path) approaches (stops) the Tao" and "Nothing in the world is softer and weaker than water, and yet for attacking things hard and hard, nothing can precede it—for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter further elaborates on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing the natural characteristics of various Chinese communities to the nature of local water sources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Skills and work
In the landmark modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not only a "solitary strand of facts," but its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they descend to the cold silence of the conclusion the most characteristic passages in Ithaca, and, according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, accomplishes "the impossible feat of elevating to poetry all the masses of pedestrian information accumulated in textbooks." The literary image of water represents the book's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the song represents the climax of the image in the book. The full song listing follows. What is it in water that Bloom, the water lover, the water carrier, the carrier back to the hill, admires?Its universality: its democratic equality and its incessant ambition: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's mathematics: its unplugged depths in the Pacific's Sundam hole of more than 8,000 fathoms: its waves and terrestrial microorganisms that visit all its coastal areas in turn: sovereignty of its parts: changes in oceanic conditions: calm ebbs: melts in neap and spring tides: post-extinction declines: spawning of surrounding icebergs, arctic and antarctic: climate and commercial importance: development of 3 to 1 above the globe: its indisputable dominance extending in four miles over all regions below Capricorn's western tropics: the stability of various philosophies in its primary basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to move and hold all soluble elements including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its peninsulas and mountain ranges the slow movement of the bottom: its alluvial deposits: its thickness and size and density: its undisturbance in lagoons and hill tarns: its changing colors in torrid and calm and cool places: its tributaries in continental lakes and oceanic rivers and their tributaries and ocean currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in ocean currents, springs, artesian wells, volcanoes, rivers, eddies, freshets, spates, earthquakes, springs, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, floods, breaking clouds: its great circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its mystery in springs, and mysterious coolness, expressed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well through the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, air saturation, dewdrop: simple composition, two hydrogen phases forming one phase hydrogen and oxygen: incessantly penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, indequate dams, leaks on shipboard: its properties for cleansing, thirst quenching and fire, nourishing plants: its infallibility as model and pattern: its changes as wind, mist, cloud, rain, hail, snow, hail: its strength in hard springs: its diversity of loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its toughness in glaciers, glaciers, glaciers: its humility in operation in hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its profitability in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and quarry piers: its potential from processed waves or springs falling from one level upwards: its undersea animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) in number, if not in fact, world inhabitants: its ubiquity as the human body's Four 90%: the wounding of its waters in the swamps of creeks, the marshes of plagues, the frozen waters of flowers, the stagnant lakes of the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster directed The Value of Water, located in St. Louis. John the Divine Cathedral in New York City, affirming a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever presented at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological group of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the United Nations declaration that access to water and sanitation is a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten artworks to showcase the impact clean water has on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide joke
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools’ Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story is a safety concern with the product. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many rappers in Florida as a catchphrase or a kind of adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers track "Florida Water". Check it out, too
Take note of it
The findings of the
The works mentioned
Other readings
External communications

World Water Facts Page
FAO Water Information Service, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Timeline: Water Conflicts Database Prepared on 16 January 2013 by Wayback Machine
School of Hydrology (USGS) . Portal reviews World Bank strategy, work and related documents on water resources
American Water Works Association Saved March 24, 2018 by Wayback Machine
Grow up on the website
Water composition and science Retrieved 28 December 2014 from Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water treatment Archive 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association of Water and Thermal Properties Registered Archive on 27 September 2022 at Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary