Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of Earth's rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds which contribute largely to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital for all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or constitute an organic micronutrient. Due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its high polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure on Earth's surface are relatively close to water's triple point, water exists on Earth in solid, liquid, and gas forms. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water and ice droplets, their solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of water volume (approximately 96.5%). Small portions of water are found as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of airborne ice and liquid water), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continually moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. Around 70% of fresh water used by humans is intended for agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major food source in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such it is widely used in industrial processes as well as cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffixed form of root *wed- (" water”; “wet”). Also related, by the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English “hydro-”), to Russian вода́ (vodá), to Irish uisce and to Albanian ujë. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a touch of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the “solvent of life”: in fact, water as it is present in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and particular steps are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance to exist in solid, liquid, and gas forms under normal earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The two other common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does so when liquid. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this regard. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becoming less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98°C (39.16°F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/ft3). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms residing in lakes would perish during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior constitutes an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve notable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn to vapor at its surface through evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or an ice core. During the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of variation of the melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P. =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, volume increases when melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in the formation of subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205°C (401°F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400°C (752°F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100°C (212°F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. Under vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple Points and Reviews
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These come together at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be progressively compressed or expanded between gaseous and liquid densities; its properties (completely different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at appropriate pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another ice with cubic crystal symmetry, Ic ice, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, the ice forms more crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, Ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a water droplet was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can detect the presence of water in their mouths and frogs are able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it varying tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have evolved senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the c region. 600 to 800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the harmonics of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, in a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended matter or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, because the greater intensity of the lower shades of water means that short-pathway glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the bowl must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for windows in toilet bowls containing aqueous solutions. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners are free pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. In addition to the curved structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules like sugars and simple alcohols like ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, the latter giving the fizz to soft drinks, sparkling wines and beers. Additionally, many substances found in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing and other phenomena crucial for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also account for its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate, storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds in water are approximately 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of this figure is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is invoked by all vascular plants, such as trees. Auto-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it, a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible in most cases: its compressibility varies from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only experiences a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is approximately 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, particularly at low frequencies (around 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental detection (sonar). Responsiveness
Metallic elements more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, that of glaciers is glaciology, that of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes related to hydrology are central to ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and on the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the planet's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. The majority of water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. There is also groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Mantle water is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water plays an important role in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport across the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which constitute the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water perpetually moves through each of these regions in the water cycle comprising the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, coming from water vapor condensing from the air and falling on land or ocean. runoff from land generally reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns there, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute an additional 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on earth, comes in several forms: most often rain, snow and hail, with a certain contribution from fog and dew. Dew is made up of small drops of water that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the Earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Water condensed in the air can also refract sunlight and produce rainbows. Runoff often accumulates above watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat terrain for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is a prolonged period of months or years during which a region experiences a deficit in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below-average precipitation, either due to its topography or its latitude location. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or as irrigation water. Water occurs in both “stocks” and “flows”. Water can be stored in the form of lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, as well as ice and snow. Of the world's total fresh water, about 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains stored is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A substantial fraction of the water supply in some regions is water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from those of fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. Water salinity in large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine bodies of water and produce oscillating currents called tidal currents. The tidal change produced at a given location is the result of changes in the position of the Moon and Sun relative to Earth coupled with the effects of Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of coastline submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many distinct properties that are essential for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that allows their replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids for use as fuels for energy or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use energy from the sun to separate hydrogen from oxygen in water. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed by air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a donor of hydrogen ions (H+, i.e. a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values below 7 while bases have values above 7. Aquatic Life Forms
Earth's surface waters are filled with life. The first forms of life appeared in water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton generally form the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do this in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life has evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has always thrived around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the major rivers of the Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The Early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their ease of access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, like Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In regions like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to drinking water has been and remains a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or drinking water. Water that is not drinkable can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation, or by a range of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to drinking water. Water that is not potable but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by a variety of names other than potable water or potable water, and is sometimes referred to as safe or "safe for swimming" water. Chlorine is an irritant to the skin and mucous membranes that is used to make water safe or drinkable. Its use is highly technical and is generally controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1 to 2 ppm of chlorine not yet reacted with impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological state using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal sewage) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cubic feet) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on its access result from naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demand from agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals aimed at halving, by 2015, the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe drinking water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of ensuring universal access to affordable drinking water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; some five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater remains untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, representing about a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of them extract more water each year than is replenished by their natural water cycles. This pressure not only affects surface freshwater bodies like rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
Human water use is most important for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for between 80 and 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is intended for irrigation, but the vast majority of water “consumed” (used and not returned to the environment) is intended for agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and distribute water, as well as to dispose of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are causing growing concerns about water-related issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demands increase for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water-related challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture globally and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Additionally, 1.6 billion people live in regions facing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity prevents authorities from meeting water demand. The report concludes that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing current food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to work to increase their productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton, the equivalent of a pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. While cotton represents 2.4% of global water consumption, water is consumed in regions already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the diversion of the waters of the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers by the former Soviet Union to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as being equal to “the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and to the melting temperature of ice”. But for practical reasons, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, was needed, the kilogram. Work was therefore commissioned to precisely determine the mass of a liter of water. Although the decreed definition of the gram specifies water at 0°C (32°F) – a highly reproducible temperature – the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the highest water density temperature, which was then measured at 4°C (39°F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined based on the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water primarily consists of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes generally contains fewer heavy isotopes than sea water. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The average human body contains 50 to 60 percent water, depending on age, gender and size, although individuals can contain between 45 and 75 percent. The United States National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The precise amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most is ingested through foods or drinks other than pure water. The medical literature favors lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for an average man, excluding additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (overhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that “a person should consume eight glasses of water a day” appears to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water consumption, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water consumption in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the United States said: "A common standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food." Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods. » The latest Dietary Reference Intake report from the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that water from food provided approximately 19% of the total water consumption in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should consume 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that normally around 20% of water consumption comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (caffeinated included). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and stools, through perspiration and through the expiration of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals like copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest fresh drinking water resource (by volume) is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is generally not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. In addition, an acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are commonly used fluids for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Fresh water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through vaporization and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser) and as a coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling of power plants accounts for the largest consumption of water. In the nuclear industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This serves as something of a passive safety measure, because removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop a reaction and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire Considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the risks of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or graphite coke, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was demonstrated during the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in that case came not from firefighting but from the reactor's water-cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, particularly those of the alkali and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Quicklime, alkaline earth oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance often transported in paper bags. If soaked, they can ignite when their contents react with water. Leisure
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. Additionally, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places where people come to relax and enjoy leisure activities. Many find the sound and look of flowing water calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at low temperatures, either as ice or as crystallized snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and sanitation services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply installations include water wells, cisterns for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks and water purification installations, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) dug into the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, provided the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include filtering with sand which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed via municipal water networks, by tanker truck or in the form of bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to the needy. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution is perhaps the greatest misuse of water; To the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits it derives. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into standard market cost accounting, being conceived as externalities that the market cannot take into account. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local populations, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is generally treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, the suspension of solids in aqueous slurries, or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large quantities of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydroelectricity. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a hydraulic turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a renewable, inexpensive and non-polluting source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built across a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake passes through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water jet and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in cooling machines to prevent overheating or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses constitutes pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses various purification techniques, both for water supply and discharge. The digital sector, particularly artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the development of AI may “threaten global and national water security.” Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or in its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many essential roles in food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars present in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as atmospheric pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures, with lower atmospheric pressure occurring at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water increases the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F) and one mole of salt per kg increases the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water decrease water activity – this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also its preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. This can significantly affect the quality of a product and play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong external wind of gas and dust. When this flow of material ends up impacting the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this hot and dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been present in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Water likely exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the formation and evolution models of the solar system and those of other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present in the form of vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: at the level of detectable traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over full atmosphere, typically 1-4% at surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – in ices only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus atmosphere – in traces less than 50 bars
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in the deepest layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Bootis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: are not limited to cooler stars and are even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, in the form of a 10-kilometer-thick ocean, about 30 to 40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and in Titan, in the form of a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an underground ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present in the form of ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Primarily as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks. NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa but also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related objects in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud
And is also probably present on:

Mercury's poles
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably make up much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or further from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions allowing all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to retain an atmosphere, including moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin, if any, atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water it contains can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. This leads to health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean water has improved in recent decades in almost every region of the world, but around one billion people still do not have access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water-related vulnerability. A report published in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a source of clean water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there is enough water for everyone", but that access to this water is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by water sector donors as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments powerless to act. The authors of the 2007 Global Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes by which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is, above all, about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply “plans” that work in developed countries to places and contexts in developing countries. The Mekong River is an example; A study by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for their water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely undertaken. They also discovered that Cambodia's water bill was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child died every 15 seconds from water-related diseases, which are easily preventable and often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report indicates that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. Urban residents (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries facing high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have quadrupled, while those in the northern mid-latitudes have increased 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 amounted to 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries where water is unsafe, 4 billion people suffer from water scarcity for at least one month per year, and droughts cost 307 billion dollars per year. He calls for policies that correspond to reality rather than the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or affusion) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (Mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, ritual bathing in pure water is practiced for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptizing, blessing people, places and objects, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as a source of life. Philosophy
The Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and considered it a ylem, or fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle depicts as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as being cold and moist. The classical element water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of The Dao De Jing states: “The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in the fact that it benefits all things and in the fact that it occupies, without seeking (on the contrary), the low place that not all men like. Therefore (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao” and “There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet in attacking things which are firm and strong, nothing can take precedence over it – for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed. "Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 further develops the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing natural qualities to the inhabitants of different Chinese regions. to the character of local water resources. Folklore. "Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note Grimm's fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy between living water and dead water The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters believed to prevent aging.
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Hymn to Water." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous string of facts," but rather its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, till they subside in the calm stillness of the conclusion" pestilential marshes, withered flower-water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. » achieves “the improbable feat of transforming into poetry all the jumble of information accumulated in school textbooks”. The literary motif of water represents the theme of the novel "eternal and ever-changing life", and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in its entirety. What did Bloom admire in water, lover of water, drawer of water, carrier of water returning to the range, admired? Its universality: its democratic equality and the constancy of its nature in the search for its own level: its immensity in the ocean of the Mercator projection: its unsurveyed depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 fathoms: the agitation of its waves and its surface particles visiting in turn all the points of its coastline: the independence of its units: the variability of sea states: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgor in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar, Arctic and Antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3 to 1 preponderance on the dry land of the globe: its incontestable hegemony extending in square leagues over the entire region located below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the centuries-old stability of its basin primitive: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and retain in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and descending promontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight, its volume and its density: its imperturbability in lagoons and tarns of altitude: its gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and glacial zones: its ramifications vehicular in watercourses and continental lacustrine confluents oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: Gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, whirlpools, floods, floods, ground waves, watersheds, water separations, geysers, cataracts, the whirlwinds, the maelstroms, the floods, the deluges, the downpours: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secret in the springs and its latent humidity, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and illustrated by the well drilled in the hole in the wall of the Ashtown gate, the saturation of the air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen and a constituent part of oxygen: its curative virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetrability in channels, gullies, insufficient dams, leaks on board ships: its properties for cleaning, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses into vapor, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in the mouths of rigid fire: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and coves and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and its estuaries and tidal inlets: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility to the work of hydraulic millstones, turbines, dynamos, power stations electrical, laundering, tanneries, dryers: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and dry docks; photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its effluvia in lake marshes, pestilential marshes, faded floral waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, which anchored a year-long cathedral initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever presented at the cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen Monoxide Parody
“Dihydrogen monoxide” is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983, when an article about April Fools' Day appeared in a Durand, Michigan, newspaper. The false story concerned safety concerns regarding the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To take it even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' song "Florida Water" from 2023. See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

The global water data page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Timeline: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and associated publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Web
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
“Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe”, Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for Water and Steam Properties Archived September 27, 2022, at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary