Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or an organic micronutrient. Due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the surface temperature and pressure of the earth are relatively close to the triple point of water, water on earth exists as a solid, a liquid and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended drops of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can fall out in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the largest part of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. Approximately 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies is, and remains, an important source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. A large part of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas and manufactured products) is transported by boats through seas, rivers, lakes and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wodixed-or, from 'wowdixed-or,'. Also related, through the Indo-European root, to the Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from which English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian wją. History
On earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This makes it possible to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas in normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so while liquid. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes considerably less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where the density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, breaking pipes and fracturing rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die in the winter. In addition, this abnormal behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that spreads heat across the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although interaction is weak, it can achieve a remarkable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atm (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into vapor on its surface by evaporation (evaporation through the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice core. In the process of freeze-drying, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice sublimates on its surface. The melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of the melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. For most substances, the volume increases during melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures above 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascal (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid densities; its properties (which are very different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions with organic compounds. In the earth's mantle it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, decomposition and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square grid. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to evaluate the drinkability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool if the light source is sunlight that is reflected by the white tiles of the swimming pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green by the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or of an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm-1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent at 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material that is in common use for the cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the deviation between the lone pairs is greater than the deviation between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, which dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a molecule of water in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is the reason why the freezing and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate, by storing and transporting heat between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is trusted by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, coupled with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10-10 Pa-1 in ordinary conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only has a decrease of 1.8% in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by whales and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and liberating hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water on Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under and over the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. Most of the water on earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects patterns of faulting. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical heating processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. Deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, ground water and plants. Water always moves through each of these regions in the water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the earth or ocean. drainage from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor usually found in the ocean returns there, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff into the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration in the land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. The precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, has various forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that condense when a high density of water vapor hits a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to create rainbows. The water flows often collected over water bodies that run into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is a longer period of months or years when a region notices a shortage of its water supply. This happens when a region consistently receives below average rainfall, either due to its topography or due to its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural sources of water that are potentially useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "supplies" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet ones. A substantial fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in reservoirs, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, the reserves decrease. According to some estimates, about 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable withdrawals of groundwater, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature until the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the moon and the sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the moon and sun relative to the earth, coupled with the effects of earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are critical to the proliferation of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (by energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (for example, storms, triglycerides and proteins for storage of fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg glucose, fatty acids and amino acids used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these certain metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the energy of the sun to split hydrogen from water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to capture the energy of the sun and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, which is a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface water of the earth is full of life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to get oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusks siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (ca. 3300 BC - ca. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have thrived for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to people when swimming or bathing is variously referred to as potable water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm chlorine not yet reacted with impurities for swimming water). Water for bathing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition with chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting waste water (mostly sewage, also known as municipal waste water) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10 ^ 12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Heavy water is a renewable resource, shown by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressure on access is the result of the naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands through agriculture and industry, and increasing populations. Currently, almost a billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal was uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with roughly a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these annually withdraw more water than is recharged by their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The most substantial human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of the fresh water that is withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of the "wasted" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying and delivering water, and removing wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water problems, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. A further 1.6 billion people live in areas with economic water scarcity, where the lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet the demand for water. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuation of current food production and environmental trends would lead to crisis in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to struggle to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard was needed, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram. Work was therefore given to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram of water specified at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - a very reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and carry out their measurements at the temperature of the highest water density, which at the time was measured as 4 ° C (39 ° F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and freezing point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water mainly consists of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of the heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is taken in by eating or drinking other than drinking straight water. Medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for an average man, except for additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary when exercising, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtime, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "A common standard for various individuals is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this quantity is contained in prepared foods." The latest US National Research Council Dietary Reference Intake Report generally recommends, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for 1% water in total of food in total 9 intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men average 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during nursing. Also noted is that usually about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (caffeinated included). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and feces, through sweat, and through exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and the daily fluid requirement may also increase. People need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest (volume) freshwater source suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is often used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, which dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions it is usually not used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can even be naturally available from a lake or the sea. It is particularly effective at transporting heat through evaporation and condensation of water because of its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and the coolant (used to transfer the waste heat to a body of water or to carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are favored for stopping a reaction and it is preferred to keep the core covered with water to ensure sufficient cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire-fighting fluid. The evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. Use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coking graphite, break down the gaseous water and produce water. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from fire fighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can ignite when their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, such as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, where the water must be at a low temperature like ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate places is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers can provide a sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. It can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done via municipal water systems, tank transport or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no cost. Reducing use by using drinking water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets in the city to conserve fresh water resources. Contaminating water may be the single biggest abuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter standard accounting of market costs, it is considered as externalities for which the market cannot be held accountable. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated at wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large quantities of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water power. Hydroelectric energy comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. The energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flows from the lake is forced by turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in the cooling of machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques in both water supply and disposal. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a large amount of water, so AI expansion "could threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often involve immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as is air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers water's freezing point. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated by using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, and also play a role in sanitation. The hardness of water is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10 ^ 3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10 ^ 3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat. The observed water is quickly produced in this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water has existed in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably also exists in abundance in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and those of other galaxies, most other planetary systems probably have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the sun: in detectable trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over entire atmosphere, typically 1-4% at surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: In Traces
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of his moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even discovered in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as an underground layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an underground liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiperbelt and Oort cloud objects
And is also likely to be present on:

Mercury poles
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably contain much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were a little closer to or further from the sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including atmospheric moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is politically influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health consequences and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the last decade in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, issued in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. hindered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up as effectively by donors in the water sector as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without authority to act. The authors of the 2007 General Inspection of Irrigation in Agriculture cited poor management as one reason for some forms of water shortage. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to use 'blueprints' that work in the developed world in developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely undertaken. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity in 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water bankruptcy", because more than 50% of large lakes have disappeared since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, at least one year of water, 4 billion people experience per month. $307 billion per year. It called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (which is called baptism); it is also a part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and regarded it as an ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, who depicted Aristotle as an astronomer and an engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in benefiting all things, and in occupying, without striving (in contrast), the empty place that all men do not love. Therefore (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet is for attacking things which are firm and strong nothing that can take precedence of it - for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" writes in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter about water, proclaiming the symbol of water, further proclaiming the symbol of water. and attributing natural qualities of the people of various Chinese regions to the character of local water sources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm's fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are believed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like its subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they sink into the calm silence of the closing 'pestilential marshes, faded flower water in the stagnant pool has been considered the one hymn of the stagnant pool. notable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of elevating all the rubbish of footling information collected in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life", and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What in the water did Bloom admire, water-lover, water-puller, water-carrier returning to the range, its universality: its democratic equality and constancy according to its nature in the search for its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific Ocean, which more than 8,00000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000 oerflakken hawwe keare alle punten fan syn seeboard: de ûnôfhinklikens fan syn ienheden: de fariabiliteit fan steaten fan 'e see: syn hydrostatyske rêst yn rêst: syn hydrokinetyske turgidity yn neare en spring tide: its descent into devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice caps, Arctic and Antarctic: its predominance of the climatic and commercial significance of the land: globe: its undisputed hegemony extends in square leagues over the entire region below the subequatorial tropics of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and keep in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow processes of all peninsulas: and volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns: its gradation of colors in the hot and temperate and frigid zones: its ramifications of cars in continental lakes contained streams and confluent ocean-flowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf currents, north and sea waters: gulf currents, north and sea artesian springs, eruptions, currents, eddies, freshets, trenches, ground swells, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, maelstroms, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: his great circumterrestrial horizontal curve: his secrecy in springs, and latent or hygrometric instrument example through the well through the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the water of the Dead Sea: its persistence penetrativeness in runnels, dams, in ditches, dams, thirst and fire classes, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapor, mist, cloud, rain, snow, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bays and gullies and gullies and lagoons and minollagos and fjords and sounds tides estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility in working hydraulic mills wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, as navigable, floating and harness falling tide: level: its submarine fauna and flora (anaacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its effluvia in lacustrine swamps, pestilential swamps, faded flowers water in the stagnant pool. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored a year-long initiative of the cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear in the cathedral features more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members are Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as the Danny Towers song "Florida Water" from 2023. See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

The world's water data site
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water Science School (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Weather on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The chemistry of water Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary