Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which greatly affects its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, even though it does not provide dietary energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, global abundance, and strong polarity for its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water and ice droplets, its solid form. Finely divided crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, and seas and oceans make up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and the Antarctic and Greenland ice sheets (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water is constantly moving through evaporation, evapotranspiration (evaporation), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh waters has been and continues to be an important source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and industrial products) is carried by boat through seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes as well as cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, yachting, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *woed-fix form, f suud-orpean. ('water'; 'wet'). Also related through an Indo-European root is Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from which English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian vjů. History
On earth
Characteristics
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless and has a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": naturally occurring water almost always contains various solutes, and special measures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. in the states
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter for water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools over certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so in liquid form. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and turns into ice, water expands by about 9% and reaches a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause tremendous pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it usually appears to contract and thicken as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, which floats on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in the lakes would drown during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a considerable interaction. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or condenses as steam at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into steam on the surface by evaporation (evaporation through a liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and layering also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes are formed by settling on aerosol particles or ice cores. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure to sublimate the ice on its surface. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of the melting temperature with pressure is obtained from the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    year
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    year
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          year
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          year
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases during melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick amounts of ice, leading to subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but in the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point rises with the pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park, the temperature exceeds 205 °C (401 °F). In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than at sea level. For example, at 1524 meters (5000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to shorten cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
The pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) has curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be progressively compressed or expanded between gaseous and liquid densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in many applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms hexagonally symmetric crystals. Another with cubic symmetry, ice Ic, may exist in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several others have been predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was hit by a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. Ice forms a square lattice between the graphene layers. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and a frog is known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color is easily visible in daylight in a tap water glass placed against a pure white background. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column according to Beer's law. This also applies to, for example, a swimming pool, when the light source is sunlight reflected from the pool's white tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of lower tones in water means that short-distance glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solution in a region of about 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette must be both transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material commonly used in cuvette windows for aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be detected with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. In practice, sunlight does not reach parts of the oceans that are less than 1,000 meters deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64–1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners have lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms have a partial negative charge, while hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, the latter of which forms the effervescence of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances of living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing and other phenomena important for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, i.e. insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. For this reason, the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds, such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (0.561–0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it has been estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this feature. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH− combined with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity that increases when a small amount of ionic material such as common salt is dissolved. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - this process is called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. In oceans at a depth of up to 4 kilometers, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10–3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property exploited by whales and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology studies the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The distribution and movement of groundwater is studied by hydrogeology, the glaciology of glaciers, the limnology of inland waters and the distribution of oceans by oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The total mass of water on, under and on the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water storage) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor form. It also occurs as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fracture patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser extent, ice are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water continuously moves through each area in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and evaporation from land plants and animals into the air. rain caused by condensed water vapor from the air falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as it drains into the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and evaporation from land masses also adds another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, 119 Tt per year on land, comes in several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail accompanied by some fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature of the earth starts to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to form a rainbow. Runoff often collects on top of water bodies that flow into rivers. Runoff through erosion shapes the environment, creating river valleys and estuaries that provide rich soil and flat ground for the formation of settlement centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a longer period of months or years when an area experiences a deficiency in its water supply. This occurs when an area consistently receives below average rainfall either due to its topography or latitude location. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water exists both as a "storage" and as a "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or ground water, and as ice and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the world's total fresh water is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The duration of water storage varies greatly: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can vary with the seasons, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet ones. A significant part of the water supply in some areas consists of water taken from water stored in storage, and when the withdrawal exceeds the recharge, the storage decreases. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride and smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature drops to the freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum density above the freezing point. The salinity of the water in the large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity of 30-40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents called tidal currents. The changing tides produced at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The coastal strip that is under water at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are critical for the reproduction of life. It accomplishes this task by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's dissolved substances dissolve, and as an essential part of many of the body's metabolic processes. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (with the help of energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g. starches, triglycerides and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (e.g. glucose, fatty acids and amino acids, which are used as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these certain metabolic processes could not exist. Water is the basis of both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and regenerate water and carbon dioxide in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, or proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor, such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), forming water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values below 7, while bases have pH values above 7. Aquatic animals
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and marine mammals such as dolphins and whales are diverse. Certain animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have a wide variety of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in aquatic environments, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy accessibility by water and the resulting increase in trade. Islands with safe water ports like Singapore have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East where there is less water, the availability of clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtering or distilling or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is referred to by different names than potable or potable water and is sometimes called safe water or "swimable". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) in drinking water and 1–2 ppm chlorine that has not yet reacted with pollutants in bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly wastewater, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-stressed countries, meaning that each receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable natural resource that is recycled by the natural Hydrological Cycle, but the pressures on its availability naturally arise from uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal was uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation services by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly. about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent the deaths of 1.4 million children from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90 percent of municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate to severe water scarcity, and 17 of these countries withdraw more water each year than is recharged through their natural water cycle. The strain not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also depletes groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The majority of human water use is in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for up to 80–90 percent of total human water consumption. In the US, 42% of fresh water that is withdrawn is used for irrigation, but most of the water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and deliver water and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-consuming industries grow, new water challenges are likely. In 2007, the International Water Institute of Sri Lanka conducted an assessment of agricultural water supply to determine whether the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture worldwide and mapped places suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water for all needs. In addition, 1.6 billion people live in areas with economic water scarcity, where a lack of water investment or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report stated that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demand, while industry and cities must find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton, equivalent to a pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Cotton accounts for 2.4 percent of the world's water use, but water is consumed in areas that already have water shortages. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one-hundredth of a cubic meter at the melting temperature of ice." However, for practical reasons, a metal reference standard, a thousand times heavier than a kilo, was required. Therefore, the task was to determine the exact mass of one liter of water. Despite the definition of the gram defining water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the researchers decided to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, then measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same step as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water mainly consists of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of the water. Water in rivers and lakes contains less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna mean seawater specification. For drinking
The average human body is 50-60% water depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have 45-75% water. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is absorbed through foods or beverages other than drinking plain water. The medical literature favors lower water consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional needs due to dehydration from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, which can put them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with meals, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original water intake recommendation from the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council in 1945 read: "The usual standard for different individuals is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is included in prepared foods." U.S. The National Research Council's most recent Dietary Intake Comparison Report generally recommended the median total water intake (including food sources) of US survey data: 3.7 liters (0.81 mp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 impgal; 0.71 US gal) of water, containing a total of 1% water, for women participating in the survey. Pregnant and lactating women in particular need more fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups) because of the extra fluid loss during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated beverages). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, perspiration, and exhalation of respiratory water vapor. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss increases and the daily fluid requirement may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest single potable freshwater resource (by volume) is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or starting material and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds close to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these features are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions due to water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a research topic. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen burns organic impurities efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common heat exchange fluids due to their availability and high heat capacity for both cooling and heating. Cold water can be naturally available even from a lake or sea. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry, such as steel and copper, oxidize faster under the influence of untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a cooling fluid (used to exchange waste heat to water bodies or transport it away by evaporating in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants use the most water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This is a kind of passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is preferable to keep the core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good extinguishing agent. Evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic substances float on top of the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. When using water in firefighting, the dangers of steam explosions that can arise when water is used in very hot fires in closed spaces must also be taken into account, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot coal, such as coal, charcoal or coking graphite, break down water and form water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl accident, although in this case the water involved did not come from extinguishing works, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the wick caused the water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metal and alkaline earth metal oxides, generate so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Burnt alkaline earth lime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If they seep through, they can ignite when their contents react with water. Refreshment
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as for fitness and sports. Some of these are swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on ice. Lake shores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and appearance of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be shallow either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, water tanks for collecting rainwater, water networks and water purification plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old water pipes. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected from springs, taken from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable places is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the flow of aquifers is sufficient. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can mean removing insolubles, solutes and harmful microbes. Popular methods include filtration with sand, which only removes insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution in dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed via municipal water systems, tank delivery or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the poor for free. Another option is to reduce usage by using drinking water only for human use. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Contaminating water may be the single greatest abuse of water; to the extent that the pollutant restricts other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the natural resource regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other pollutants, this is not included in standard market cost accounting, as it has been considered an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Medicines used by people often end up in waterways and can adversely affect aquatic organisms if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated at wastewater treatment plants. Contaminated surface runoff is mitigated by various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in aqueous slurries, or the use of water for dissolving and extracting substances or washing products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require a separate water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in electricity production. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydropower comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is an inexpensive, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is obtained from the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built on a river, behind which an artificial lake is created. The water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that spin generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used to cool machines to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollutants include discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant waters (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various cleaning techniques for both water supply and disposal. The digital sector, especially AI, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often involve immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in food science. Dissolved substances in water, such as salts and sugars, affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances and atmospheric pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the amount of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. The activity of water can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of the water in the solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water lower the activity of the water - this is important to know because the growth of most bacteria stops when the activity of the water is low. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality and sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (USA). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters of water; However, the authors make it clear that this is a global average and conditions will affect the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water forms rapidly in this warm, dense gas. A July 22, 2011 report described the discovery of a giant water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies as well, since its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are one of the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is steam:

The Sun's atmosphere: observable quantities
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: small amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - small amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deep layers
Extrasolar planets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and observed even in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth, and it covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water in Enceladus' Saturnian moons is a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an underwater liquid ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water is ice
Water is frozen:

 Mars: Under the Regolith and at the Poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA announced the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charo system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And is probably also present:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatile substances probably comprise a large part of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deep layers can be in the form of ionic water, where the molecules break up into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water, where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float about freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that would allow these three forms to occur simultaneously would be much less likely. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows for an atmosphere, including moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Atmospheric water vapor and other greenhouse gases form a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps keep the surface temperature relatively constant when they are regularly present. The state of water on a planet depends on the pressure of the environment, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure exerted by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, Politics and Crisis
Water policy is a policy that is affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource all over the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damages biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. According to a report published in November 2009, the demand for water will exceed the supply by 50 percent by 2030 in some developing regions of the world. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has been calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. The 2006 report is that everyone has enough water, but the United Nations has indicated that water availability is adequate. bad governance and corruption hinder. In addition, water donors have not adopted global initiatives to enhance aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments disempowered. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cited poor governance as one cause of some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply "plans" that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is one example; A review by the International Water Institute of policies in six countries that rely on Mekong River water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's proposed water law was much more complicated than it should have been. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN's World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has offered decision-makers tools for the development of sustainable water policy. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will have water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, resulting from overconsumption and pollution. According to the report, 10 percent of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Still, over the past 40 years, water consumption has grown by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations related to water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects whose goal is to use efficient water management to reduce poverty. Water-related agreements include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered an era of "water crisis" as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have receded since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-stressed countries, the cost of 4 billion years, and water scarcity for at least one month. $307 billion a year. It called for policies that correspond to reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that include ritual washing (washing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (ghusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, the dead are ritually bathed in pure water in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is available (see Tayamum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (e.g. in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places and objects or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and considered it the elemens, or the basic substance of the universe. Thales, who was an astronomer and engineer by Aristotle, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Monist Thales still believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that water is shaped like an icosahedron, which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associated water with mucus as cold and moist. The classical element water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says: "The highest excellence is like (water). The excellence of water is that it benefits all, and that it assumes, without striving (the contrary), a low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet nothing exists to attack solid and strong things, what could precede it - it has nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." The natural characteristics of people in different regions of China to the nature of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The fountain of youth represents the related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish author James Joyce's seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Hymn of Water." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely "a monotonous string of facts," but its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break until they subside to conclude 'swamps, faded flower-waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" and, according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of elevating into poetry all the jumble of background knowledge accumulated in schoolbooks." Literary the theme of water represents the theme of the novel, "eternal life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. What did Bloom, the water-keeper, the water-bearer, return to the region? The restlessness of the Pac0., and the surface particles which alternately visit all points of the sea-shore: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic stillness in the calm: its hydrokinetic rigidity during the open water and spring tides: its subsidence after the destruction: its sterility in the polar, arctic and antarctic ice-caps: its climatic and commercial importance1. the globe: its undisputed hegemony, extending in square arrays below the whole of the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multilateral stability of its primordial basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble matter, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion: all the spreading weight of the peninsula and downward volume and density: its undisturbedness in lagoons and in the highlands: its gradation of colors in stormy, temperate, and cold zones: its conveyors in streams in continental lakes, and rivers flowing in United Oceans, with their tributaries, and in oceanic violences: southern ocean current, quatorie, and ocean flow: water pipes, artesian wells, eruptions, gushes, eddies, flood waters, splashes, waves, watersheds, geysers, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, inundations, cloud-bursts: around that vast earth around, its spring's subsequent ahorisontality and moisture. rhabdomantic or hygrometric devices, exemplified by the hole in the wall of the gate at Ashtown, the well, the saturation of the air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two elements of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its curative virtues: its buoyancy in waters, denel zones: inadequate dams, leaks on board: its properties purifying, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its inerrancy as paradigm and model: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its various forms in bbights and gultss and gultss and gultss and gulss lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its strength in glaciers, in icebergs, icebergs: its obedience to hydraulic mills, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleaching plants, digesters, danish factories, tan if navigable, floating, and burial piers: its potential derived from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its undersea fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, inhabitants of the earth: its omnipresence constitutes 90% of its corruptible human body: plagues, faded flower waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at New York's Cathedral of St. John the Divine, anchoring the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever held at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. In honor of the 10th anniversary of water and sanitation declared by the UN as a human right, the charitable organization WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to present the impact of clean water on people's lives. A parody of nitrous oxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and taunts mocking scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983 when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of the safety of the substance. Music
Many Florida-based rappers have used the word "water" as a catchphrase or adlib of sorts. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Going even further, rappers have made entire songs dedicated to the waters of Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Cited works
Read more
External links

World water information page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Hydrology (USGS)
A portal to the World Bank's strategy, work, and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water online
The structure and science of water Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary