Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and nearly colorless chemical substance. It is the main source of Earth's rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the source of all known living things, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known life, even if it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all life, its chemical stability, its abundance in the world, and its strong polarity due to its low molecular weight, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are so close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation rain and aerosol fog paths. Clouds consist of suspended water and ice droplets, their solid state. If split enough, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. Water in gaseous state is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas accounting for most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur in groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water moves continuously through water cycles of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Salt and freshwater fishing is, and continues to be, a major part of the diet in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much long-distance trade (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by sea via seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for industrial and domestic cooling and heating. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of materials, both mineral and organic; thus, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology of the
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-German *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, form suffixed from root *wed- . (‘water’; ‘wet’). It is also related, through Indo-European roots, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History of the
On the ground
Properties of the
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue light. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes referred to as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve most substances than any other liquid, although it is terrible at dissolving non-polar substances. Thus it can be the "solvent of life": in fact, water found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. States of the United States
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor), and deposition (vapor to ice). Density of the
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and contracts when cooled within certain temperature ranges; it is the only naturally known substance to do so while liquid. Also, it is unusual in that it is much less dense while freezing, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of the water decreases. Freezing to ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser on cooling. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms at the top, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most lake-dwelling aquatic organisms would perish in the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important feature of the thermohaline circulation that disperses heat in the oceans around the planet. Magnetism of the universe
Water is diamagnetic. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it is possible to achieve a noticeable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can be changed to vapor by cooling at its surface (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces and snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice core. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so the ice next to it sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation to the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T. Poetry
            
            
              d
              P. Poetry
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T. Poetry
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L. Poetry
                    
                  
                  − of the
                  
                    v
                    
                      S. Poetry and prose
                    
                  
                
                ) L. Poetry
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left (v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L. Poetry
          
        
      
    
    {\display v_{\text{L}}}
  
 ha 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S. Poetry and prose
          
        
      
    
    {\display v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L. Poetry
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of heating. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. The high altitude kitchen lasts longer than the sea level kitchen. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, pressure cookers can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water should boil at room temperature. Triple point is critical
In a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the highest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point will be used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical liquid. It can be compressed or expanded gradually between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (quite different from ambient waters) are sensitivity to density. For example, for the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. Thus, it is useful in various applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst for chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms another crystalline structure. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and many more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth ice form, ice XVIII, a face-on cubic, superionic ice phase, is discovered when a drop of water is subjected to a shock wave that raises water pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperatures to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square grid. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Fresh water is generally thought to be tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances which can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have senses that can evaluate how to drink water to avoid drinking water that is too salty or fatty. Color and sight
Fresh water appears blue due to absorption of light in region c. 600–800 nm wavelength. The color can be easily detected in a glass of tap-water set against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer’s law. This also applies, for example, to the pool if the light source is sunlight reflected off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from yellow to yellow due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with short paths can be used. Observation of the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or of an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) requires a path length of about 25 μm. In addition, the cuvette should be both transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and waterproof; calcium fluoride is a material commonly used in cuvette windows containing aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be detected, for example, with a 1-cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because of the ability of sunlight to reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom is partially negatively charged while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it classifies as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, repels many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also repels many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter gives fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many components of living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are water soluble. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules regulate protein folding, DNA base pairing and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic compounds are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other analogous compounds like hydrogen sulfide. They also explain exceptionally high specific heat capacity (around 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (around 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These benefits make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, storing heat and transferring it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary force. Capillary action means the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, like trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Fresh water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when small amounts of ionic material such as common salt are dissolved. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be said to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C, and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 to 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels far in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans to communicate and detect the environment (sonar). Reactivity of the
Metallic elements more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, form hydroxide, and release hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the ground
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water across the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of groundwater circulation and movement is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and ocean circulation is oceanography. Ecological processes along with hydrology are in the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found above, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate surface area (total water supply of the earth) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds or puddles. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that causes volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth, water plays an important role in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser extent but still significantly, ice, are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on land. Deposition of transferred sediment produces many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. And cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of the following regions of the water cycle with the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water to the atmosphere and transpiration from terrestrial plants and animals to the atmosphere. precipitation, which results from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. rivers from land often reach the sea. Most of the water vapor found in most oceans returns to it, but the wind carries water vapor over land at the same rate as the flow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year and evaporation and transpiration occurring in the land mass also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Rainfall, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes many forms: the most common are rain, snow and hail, with small contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Winter usually occurs in the warmest mornings, just before sunrise and when temperatures begin to rise above the earth's surface. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to form rainbows. Runoff water is usually collected in watersheds flowing into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shaped the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provided rich soil and level terrain for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when a piece of land, usually higher, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or during a storm surge. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years in which a region perceives a deficiency in its water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below-average precipitation either due to topography or because of its location on latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can benefit humans, for example as drinking water or primary irrigation water. Water occurs as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and as ice and snow. Of the total global freshwater volume, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage varies widely: some aquifers hold water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A substantial fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stock, and as withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawal, causing groundwater to become depleted. And sea and tide
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of ocean water varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity of 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake). Tides are the cyclic rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides change the depth of marine and estuarine waters and create oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The different tides produced at a given location are the result of the different positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Its effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are critical for life to reproduce. It continues this work by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life depends on water. Water is essential as a solvent in which many of the body’s solutes are dissolved and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. Anabolism involves the removal of water from molecules (through energy required for enzymatic chemical reactions) for the growth of larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (evaporated from air or water) to form glucose and oxygen is released. All living cells use this type of fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and convert it to water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, donating a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e., a proton), can be neutralized by a base, such as a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal state. Acids have pH less than 7 and bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life
The earth is full of life. The earliest forms of life appeared in the water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are several types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as seaweed and kelp grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals, need to surface occasionally to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit numerous modifications for survival in poorly oxygenated water including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most had little or no specialization in water respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization historically flourished around major rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lies between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy accessibility by water and to the expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, like Singapore, prospered similarly. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to safe drinking water is and is a critical factor for human development. Health and pollution
Water that is fit for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but harmless to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes referred to as fresh water, or "safe for bathing." Chlorine is a skin and body irritant that is used to make water unwashable or undrinkable. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) in drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of chlorine that has not yet reacted with pollutants in bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means each person gets less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water a year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu feet) of municipal wastewater is generated worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculating through natural hydrological cycles, but pressures to access it stem from naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands for agriculture and industry, and rising populations. Today, nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people in the world without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; some five million deaths a year from waterborne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, accounting for nearly one-third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these draw more water than they are annually charged by the natural water cycle. This strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also destroys groundwater resources. Human use of the
The field of agriculture
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for up to 80 to 90 percent of human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of "potable" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developing countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, treat and distribute water, and to remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures have increased concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies grow, thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries rise, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water use in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Institute for Water Management in Sri Lanka to assess whether the world has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assesses the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and maps the areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical physical scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water shortages, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to satisfy water demand. The report finds that it will be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continued food production today and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industry and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water absorbing materials. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters of water to produce. Cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is used in regions already at risk of water scarcity. The environment has been severely damaged: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is largely due to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On December 7, 1795, it was defined in France that the gram was equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred parts of a meter, and the temperature of melted ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times heavier than the kilogram, is needed. Work was therefore ordered to determine the mass of a quart of water. Although the decreed definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly repeatable temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurement at the highest water density temperature, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the water triple point, defined exactly at 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by water's boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have lower heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mid-Ocean Water specification. Because of his drinking
The human body consists, on average, of 50–60% water, depending on age, gender, and body size, although people can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 gal U.S. gal) for women. The precise amount depends on the activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are consumed through food or drink other than straight drinking water. Medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for an average man, avoiding extra requirements for fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this. People can drink far more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk for dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 ﬂ oz US) at mealtimes is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council stated: "An ordinary standard for diverse persons is 1 milliliter for every food calorie. Most of this amount is in processed foods." The latest U.S. National Research Council dietary intake reference report generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) total water for women food supplied approximately 19% of total water use in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and nursing women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. According to the US Institute of Medicine, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and nursing women should receive 3 liters (12 cups), because fluid loss is especially large during nursing. It is also noted that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (caffeine included). Water leaves the body in many ways; by urine and feces, by sweating, and by exhalation of water vapor in the breath. During physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Humans need water with few pollutants. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and pathogens, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide needed electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. To be washed off
Transportation of the country
Chemical applications
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less frequently as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, reducing many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds that bind well to water. In organic reactions they are not usually used as reaction solvents because they do not dissolve reagents well and are amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, sometimes these properties are desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a subject of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat transfer
Water and steam are commonly used heat transfer fluids because of their availability and high heat capacity for cooling and cooling. Cold water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. It is especially convenient to conduct heat of vaporization and condensation through water because of the large latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are more readily oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and a refrigerant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or to carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest consumer of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as the removal of water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However other methods of stopping a reaction are favored and it is better to keep the nuclear core covered with water in order to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good flammable liquid. Water evaporation carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic solvents because many organic materials float on the surface of the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. In the use of water in firefighting, the hazards of vapor explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosion, when substances react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbons such as coal, charcoal or coke graphite, decompose water. The power of such an explosion was evident in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case did not come from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when the core becomes so hot that the water flashes into steam. A hydrogen explosion can occur in a reaction between steam and hot zirconia. Some metal oxides, most notably alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when they react with water that a fire hazard can occur. The alkaline earth oxide lime quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is usually carried in paper bags. Because these are compressed, their contents can be ignited when they react with water. The Entertainment
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and scuba diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lake shores, beaches, and water parks are popular places for people to go for relaxation and fun. Many recognize the sound of running water and find it soothing, and fountains and other running water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna within aquariums or ponds for display, amusement and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require water to be at low temperatures either as ice or crystallized in snow. Water industry
The water industry provides both drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, tankers for collecting water, water supply network, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is usually collected in rivers, drawn from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right place is thus one possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can remove unstable materials, sticky substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration which removes only undissolved material, chlorination and boiling which kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Excess seawater desalination is a costly solution for use in arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, as tanker delivery or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to provide free water to those in need. Reducing usage by using drinking water (drinking) only for human consumption is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, large amounts of seawater are used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water. Water pollution may be the single greatest waste of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Unlike other types of pollution, this does not include standard accounting for market costs, which are conceived as externalities that the market cannot account for. While other people pay the price for water pollution, the profits of private companies are not passed on to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Drugs consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have detrimental effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that use water-soluble chemicals, suspensions of solids in fresh water or the use of water to dissolve and remove substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper making, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling in power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water driven by a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable source of renewable energy. The energy is supplied by the movement of water. Typically a dam is built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water from the lake is forced through turbines that spin generators. Pressure water is used in water boilers and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and environmentally friendly. It is also used to cool down machinery to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Washing untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires fresh water for many purposes and uses various purification techniques in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses huge amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food preparation
Boiling, stirring, and stirring are popular cooking methods and usually require immersing food in water or in a gaseous, steamy state. Water is also used for washing food. Water also plays a number of critical roles within food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as by air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the higher air pressure occurring at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers water’s freezing point. Solutes in water also affect water function affecting many chemical reactions and microbial growth in foods. The activity of water can be expressed as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water decrease water activity—this is important to note that most bacteria grow throughout low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Water strength is also an essential factor in food processing and can be modified or improved using chemical ion exchange systems. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the calcium carbonate concentration of the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine how much water is used in beef production. Use of medicine
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In this universe
Much of the water in the universe is created as a by-product of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by strong outward winds of gas and dust. When the resulting material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the generated shock waves compress and heat the gas. The visible water is immediately made into this hot dense gas. On September 22, 2011, a report reported the discovery of a massive cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery suggests that water has been prevalent in the universe for nearly its entire existence." Water is detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably present in abundance in other galaxies, too, since its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, most other planetary systems probably contain similar ingredients. And steam
Water exists as vapor:

The Sun's atmosphere: in observable traces
Mercury atmosphere: 3.4%, and a lot of water is in Mercury’s exosphere
Venus atmosphere: 0.002% . Earth’s atmosphere: ≈0.40% above full atmosphere, typically 1–4% above
Atmosphere of the Moon: in traces
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03% . Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter atmosphere: 0.0004% – ices only; and the moon of Europe
Atmosphere of Saturn – ices only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean) . Atmosphere of Uranus – in trace amounts below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not only in the coolest stars and even detectable in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disc: including the more than half of T Tauri stars which are AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. And liquid
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on the moons of Saturn Enceladus, which is a 10-kilometre-wide ocean approximately 30–40 kilometers beneath Enceladus' south polar surface, and that Titan, as a subsurface layer, may mix with ammonia. Jupiter’s moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also be present on Jupiter’s moon Ganymede in a combined layer of high-pressure ice and rock. And ice
Water exists as ice:

 Mars: under regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported that water molecules were detected by the NASA Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in July 2009. About Ceres
Moon Jupiter: European surface and also owned by Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: planet in ring system and Titan and Enceladus on surface and mantle
Pluto–Charon System
Comets and other objects associated with the Kuiper belt and the Oort cloud
And there are probably some today:

The poles of Mercury
Thesis of the

The exotic forms
Water and other solids likely account for much of Uranus and Neptune's inner structure and water in the deeper layers may exist as ionic water where molecules share a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water where oxygen crystallises, but hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent in gaseous and solid forms, on Earth, is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist simultaneously will be far less likely. Earth’s size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to retain an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (the greenhouse effect) that helps keep the surface temperature relatively constant when in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on ambient pressure, determined by the planet’s gravity. If a planet is massive, the water on its surface can be solid even at high temperatures due to high pressure exerted by gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is policy affected by water and water resources. Water, particularly fresh water, is a strategic resource throughout the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It impacts health and destroys biodiversity. Access to clean water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to clean water and over 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world’s population will face water-based vulnerabilities. A report, published in November 2009, stated that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The estimated proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "some." enough water for everyone," but access to it is restricted by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid delivery efficiency, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not effectively tapped water sector donors in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments unempowered to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture stated that poor governance is a factor in some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Effective water governance is primarily about determining which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. It is sometimes a mistake to try to apply the ‘blueprint’ that works in the developing world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is one example; a review by the International Institute for Water Management of policies in six countries based on Mekong River water found little cost-benefit analysis and accurate and transparent environmental impact assessment. They also noted that the water bill in Cambodia is much more complex than it needs to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child died every 15 seconds from easily preventable waterborne diseases, often linked to a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO’s World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report says two. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is thought to be endemic, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the global population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at that rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, and flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Y 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute has developed a project aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNDC), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Ocean Day on 8 November. By 2026, the United Nations declares humanity has entered the era of "water bankruptcy," as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have receded since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population live in water-insecure countries $307 billion a year. It requires policies that match reality rather than passing norms. In the natural environment
Religion of the
In most religions, water is considered a purifier. Faiths that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or fusion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament in Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also a part of other religious practices, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual baths in fresh water are practiced for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (e.g., in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for baptism, to bless people, places and things, or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is regarded as the source of life. Philosophy of the universe
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and considered it to be a ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is thicker than water, came out of water. Thales, a monist, believed mostly that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cubed earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associates water with phlegm, being cold and damp. The classic water element is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as their model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest virtue is like (that of) water. The virtue of water appears in supporting all things, and in taking, without effort (on the contrary), the lowest place which all men dislike." Therefore (his way) is close to (the) Tao" and "Nothing in this world is softer and weaker than water, but to attack the strong and strong things nothing can precede it—because nothing (very effective) can be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 elaborates further on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing natural qualities of people from different regions of china to the character of local hydric Folklore
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic legends as a means of reviving the dead. Note Grimm's tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a similar concept to magical water that supposedly prevents aging. Art and activism
In the great modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by Irish writer James Joyce, the "Ithaca" chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotone chain of facts" but, its phrase, like subject, "rises and flows, rises and swells, gathers and crumbles, down to the quiet stillness that ends with 'pestilential fens, fading water flowers, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" It is considered one of the most remarkable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, has achieved "the unlikely feat of elevating into poetry all the jumble of footling information gathered in textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, changing life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the novel's motif. The following is the correctly quoted song. What in water emphasizes Bloom, endurance, water drawer, water carrier returning to range?Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy of nature in search of its own level: vastness of ocean in Mercator projection: unplumbed depth of Pacific Sundam trench over 8,000 fathoms: restless waves and surface particles visit a in turn every point on its shores: independence of units: variability of sea states: hydrostatic quiescence in calm: hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: subsidence after devastation: sterility of circumpolar, arctic, and antarctic ice caps: climatic and commercial significance: its 3-to-1 preponderance over land dry of the globe: undisputed hegemony extending in square leagues to all regions below the subequatorial tropics of Capricorn: multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteoful cache: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of precious metals: the slow erosion of peninsulas and promontories descending: alluvial deposits with: weight and volume and density: imperturbability of lagoons and highland tarn: gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: vehicular branching with continental lakes-containing streams and rivers flowing into confluent oceans with tributaries and transoceanic currents: currents gulf, north and south equatorial course: its violence earthquakes, rivers, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, cooling, backs, muds, watersheds, hydroparts, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, whirlpools, floods, delugees, cloudbursts: its enormous circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its secret in spring, and latent moisture, indicated by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well in the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, air saturation, dew distillation: simplicity of its composition, two parts constituent hydrogen with one part constituent oxygen: its healing virtues: buoyancy in Dead Sea water: persevering penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on board: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: metamorphosis as steam, fog, cloud, rain, snow, sleet, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: variety of form with loughs and bays and gulfs and bays and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity glaciers, icebergs, ice in ice: docility with hydraulic wheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachers, tanners, scutchmills: its utility channels, rivers, if navigable, floating and engraved docks: their derivable potential tapped tide or water flows falling from level to level: underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, globe-dwellers: omnipresent as constituting 90% of human body: noxiousness of swamp effluvium lacustrine, pestilential fences, flowers of fading water, pools that shrink in waning months. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever seen at the Cathedral featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an eco-friendly collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members included Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid has commissioned visual artists to illustrate the impact clean water has on people's lives. Parody dihydrogen monoxide
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name was used in a series of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools’ Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consists of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Y" is used by many Florida rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes on the subject
The things that are said
Activities described
For further reading
The external connections

Land Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived April 16, 2013 at Wayback Machine
Water School (USGS) . World Bank portal on water resources strategy, activities and associated publications
Water Resources Association America Archived March 24, 2018 at Wayback Machine
And on the web
Water structure and science Archived January 28, 2014 at Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe," Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
The chemistry of water Archived January 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Water and Steam Properties Association Filed September 27, 2022 at Wayback Machine
H2O: The molecule that makes us, a PBS documentary