Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the largest constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Because water is a polar molecule, it undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance throughout the world, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It creates precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice may precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapour. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (containing ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evaporation-transpiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies is a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by boat through seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide range of substances, both mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European suffired (*x-wod- form), rooted *x-woropean; 'wet'). Also related, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish water, and Albanian vạj. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is weak at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal earth conditions. States
Along with oxide, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Phase transitions can be caused by adding or removing heat: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so in liquid form. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes much less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (while becoming denser) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause enormous pressure, burst pipes and split rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the normal behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or sea, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermolinear circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve significant interaction. Degree transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or condenses as steam at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface through evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling point). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces and snowflakes are formed by the deposition of an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. The melting and boiling points depend on pressure. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation gives a good approximation of the rate of change of melt temperature with pressure:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is reduced. In glaciers, melting pressure can occur under relatively thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 metres. High altitude cooking takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling point. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These come together at one point called the triple point, where all three phases can exist together. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure that liquid water can have. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/steam phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several more have been predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a phase of face-centered cubic, superionic ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that detect the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from normal sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or too sweet. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue due to absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the OH stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color may also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because glass cuvettes with a short path length could be used due to the greater intensity of the lower wavelengths of water. To observe the fundamental extended absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The fundamental Raman-active vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, as sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches the parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S), have a tetrahedral molecular structure. However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge and some of the hydrogen atoms are positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter of which gives fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomolecules create protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena vital to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulphides and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulphide. They also explain its extremely high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, 90% is estimated to be attributable to electrostatics, with the remaining 10% being partially covalent. These bonds are what cause the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, depend on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – the equilibrium is 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the dissolution of the hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when a small amount of ionic material such as common salt is dissolved. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires an energy input greater than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10–10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental detection (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water around the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. Hydrogeology is the study of the distribution and movement of groundwater, glaciation is glaciers, limnology of inland waters and oceanography is the distribution of oceans. The focus of ecohydrology is ecological processes with hydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in a body of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. Most of the water on earth is sea water. Water in the atmosphere also exists in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and fault patterns are affected by the pressure of this groundwater. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting produced by volcanoes at subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in the chemical and physical processes of weathering. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments creates many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves permanently through each of these regions in the water cycle involving the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. runoff from land that normally reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean mostly returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff into the sea, about 47 Tt per year and evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, takes several forms: rain, snow and hail are common, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high-density water vapor hits a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air could also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often collects water over land that flows into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying land, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a storm surge occurs. A drought, on the other hand, is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences a deficit in its water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average precipitation due to its topography or location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that may be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total amount of global fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers contain water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes may fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant fraction of the water supply for some regions is water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks are reduced. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea is actually a salt lake, famous for its extremely high salinity levels of 30 to 40%.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a given location is a result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth together with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The intertidal zone is an important ecological product of ocean tides, the stretch of shoreline submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many unique properties that are essential for the propagation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the total sum of anabolic and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg starches, triglycerides, and proteins to store fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these certain metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and restore water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values ​​less than 7 and bases have values ​​greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The Earth's surface waters are filled with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Certain types of animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of many underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills rather than lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide variety of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see siphon insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Historically civilization has flourished around rivers and large waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are in part due to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, like Singapore, thrive for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water has been a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Water can be made non-potable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but does not harm humans when used for swimming or bathing is called various names other than drinking water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. It is very technical to use and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm unreacted chlorine with impurities for bathing water). Water for bathing may be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce nations, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recycled by the natural hydrological cycle, but there is pressure to access it as a result of its uneven natural distribution in space and time, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and a rising population. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the percentage of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; water-related diseases cause about five million deaths a year. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, and about a third of the world's population, have moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these use more water per year than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The pressure not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
Agriculture is the most substantial human use of water, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawals are for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "wasted" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, clean and deliver water, and to remove wastewater. But economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries rise, new water challenges are likely. The International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted an assessment of water management in agriculture in 2007 to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations of water scarcity. It was found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or a lack of human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet the demand for water. The report found that the food needed could be produced in the future, but that the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet the growing demands for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. The production of water-intensive products also causes water scarcity. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - the equivalent of a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is wasted in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. The environment has been significantly damaged: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as being equal to "the total weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cubic hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times larger than the kilogram, was needed. So work was commissioned to find out precisely the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the prescribed definition of the water gram was specified at 0 °C (32 °F) - a very reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined at exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F))) of water. Natural water is composed mostly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but contains small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes usually contains less heavy isotopes than seawater. Thus, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Ocean Average Water specification. For drinking
The human body is, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gal) for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or drinks rather than drinking water directly. Medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, not including additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary while exercising, which puts them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "one should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz), was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 from the US National Research Council's Food and Nutrition Board read: "A normal standard for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this quantity is in prepared foods." The latest US National Research Council dietary reference intake report generally recommended, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) of total water for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that about 19% of water total water included in food, noting that food contains about 19% of total water. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), since large amounts of fluid are lost during nursing. It is also noted that around 20% of water intake usually comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (including caffeine). Water is released from the body in various forms; through urine and feces, through sweating, and through exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and may increase daily fluid requirements as well. People want water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solvents are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide needed electrolytes. The single largest freshwater resource (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transport
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, sometimes these properties are desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water was observed. Supercritical water has been the subject of recent research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, for both cooling and heating. Even cool water may be naturally available from a lake or the sea. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water because of its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly with untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange the waste heat with a body of water or transport it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, the largest use of water is cooling power plants. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This is a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor slows down the nuclear reaction. Other methods, however, preferred to stop reaction and preferably keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure sufficient cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. Evaporation of water carries away heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because a lot of organic matter floats on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the dangers of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water involved did not come from fire fighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused the water to flash into the steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can arise. Alkaline clay oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these get soaked, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and appearance of flowing water dull, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and waste water services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection cisterns, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected by springs, drawn from artificial bores (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. So building more wells in adequate locations is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water for human consumption may require purification. This may involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Common methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater used in arid coastal climates is a more expensive solution. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to people in need at no charge. Another option is to reduce use by using potable (potable) water for human consumption. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluted water is perhaps the single greatest abuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, it is a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other forms of corruption, this does not enter into standard market cost accounting, being conceived as an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. So others pay the price for water pollution, although the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often enter waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated at wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurry or using water to dissolve and remove substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use a lot of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often result in significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting source of renewable energy. It is the motion of water that provides the energy. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water that flows out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Water under pressure is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machinery cooling to prevent overheating, or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and the heat exchanger, as well as its use as a chemical solvent. Untreated water discharge from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in water supply and water discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are common cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous, steamy state. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many vital roles in the field of food science. Dissolves such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. Solvents, as well as air pressure, affect the boiling and freezing point of water, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solvents in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolves in water of lower water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and may be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can greatly influence the quality of the product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft water if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Lorg Uisce in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal); However, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is produced rapidly in this hot dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a huge cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water is widespread in the universe for almost all of it". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies as well, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar compositions. water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over total atmosphere, typically 1–4% at surface
The Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate an ocean of liquid water beneath the surface. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between the high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar crust and volcanic rocks NASA reported that NASA's Moon Mineralogy Maps detected water molecules aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And probably also present on:

poles of Mercury
Tethis

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers could be in the form of ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habits
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to life on the universe as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer to the Sun or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), it would be much less likely that the conditions would exist that would allow all three forms to be present simultaneously. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on ambient pressure, which determines the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is a politics that is influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and is an important factor in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost all parts of the world, but an estimated one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability by the year 2025. A report, released in November 2009, suggests that the demand for water will exceed the supply by 50% by 2030, in some developed regions of the world. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a source of safe water since 1990. It is calculated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A United Nations report in 2006 said that access to water "is sufficient", but the report of United Nations that access to water is sufficient" in 2006. mismanagement and corruption. In addition, donors in the water sector have not adopted global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one cause of certain types of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to the settings and contexts of the developing world. One example is the Mekong river; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it appeared. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's Global Water Assessment Programme, has provided tools for decision makers to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. But in the last 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have quadrupled, and floods in the northern mid-latitudes have increased by 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management undertakes projects that aim to use effective water management to reduce poverty. The conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity entered the era of "Water Bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries that are water insecure, 4 billion people experience water shortages per year at least, $7 billion per of the year. He called for policies to match reality rather than past norms. In culture
Faith
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that incorporate ritual washing (fablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. It is a central Sacrament of Christianity (so called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (eg, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for baptism, to bless people, places and things, or as a means to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be ylem, or the basic substance of the universe. Thales' theory, which Aristotle demonstrated as an astronomer and engineer, that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, moniste, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that an icosahedron was the shape of water - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped clay. The theory of the four humors of the water body related to phlegm, as being cold and moist. The classical element of water was one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with clay, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest excellence is like (to) water. The excellence of water is seen in its benefit to all things, and in its occupation, without striving (to the contrary), the low place that every man dislikes. So (its way) is close to the Tao" and "There is nothing on earth softer and weaker than water, and yet strong to attack things that are firm and strong." there is nothing that can be prioritized - because there is nothing (as effective) that can be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地, which further explains the symbol of the water tribes to announce the water tribes. of the people of different regions of China with the character of local water resources
Germanic and Slavic folktales feature "living water" as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth is a related concept of magical waters that allegedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In the remarkable modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is only a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the quiet peace of the conclusion 'pestilential fens, faded flowers, stagnant pools' in the missing passage, most significant I "the moon is wanting. according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, he succeeds in "the improbable feat of raising to poetry the clutter of footling information that has accumulated in schoolbooks". The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "the ever-changing world," and the hymn is the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in its entirety. What in the water did Bloom admit, water lover, water drawer, water carrier returning to the range? Its universality: its democratic equality and stability of its nature as it seeks its own level: its expanse in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its plumbless depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific Ocean more than 8,000 minutes of particle tranquility visiting all its waves. sea table: the independence of its units: the diversity of the state of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar, arctic and antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial importance: a preponderance of the dryge in the square: a preponderance of the dryge in the square: a preponderance of the dryge in the square: a preponderance of the dryge in the square: a preponderance of the dryge in the square: 3 to 1 per globe. leagues over the entire region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most valuable metals: its slow peninsular erosions and downwardtending headland: its deposits of subsurface volume and: its weight and its subsurface volume deposits; tarns: its gradation of colors in the broken and temperate and frigid zones: its automotive consequences in continental lakes currents and rivers confluent oceans with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: the gulf stream current, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in sea earthquakes, water spires, artesian wells, fresh lands, fountains, spurs, fresh fountains water thresholds, latrines water, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, tálstroms, bays, streams, clouds: its surrounding horizontal curve: its secret in springs, and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and represented by the well at the gate of the air at the ash hole, soaked at the air hole; the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetration in ruts, culverts, inadequate dams, leaks on shipboard: its cleansing properties, quenching thirst and fire, embodying paradise; as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hailstones: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and inlets and lagoons and atolls and islands and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, ice mountains, its turbines at work; dynamics, electric power stations, bleach works, tanneries, squash mills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and graining: its potential that can be derived from modified tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (selfish, photophobe) numerically, if not, its inhabitants numerically, if it is not: its global inhabitants 90; the human body: harmful effluents in lake marshes, pest fens, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which was part of the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. It was the largest exhibition ever seen in the Cathedral, and featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate 10 years since the UN declared access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parole of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and tricks that make fun of scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article was published in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was a safety concern about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Science (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and related publications
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Thoughts, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary