Water is an inorganic substance with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of every known living organism, in which it acts as a solvent. Because water is a polar molecule, strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding contributes significantly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance throughout the world, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are very close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It creates precipitation in the form of water and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. Water vapor or water vapor is the gaseous state of water. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water appear as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (which contain ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through a water cycle of transpiration, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and still is, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by boat through oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of materials, both mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Old English wæter, from Old English *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European, suffixed, *x-wropean root; 'wet'). Also cognate, via the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Old Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish water, and Albanian vạj. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic substance. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor in dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be a "solution of life": in fact, water as found in nature almost always contains several dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also a liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes denser as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only substance known naturally to do so while in liquid form. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly denser as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98°C (39.16°F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing 0°C (32°F), water expands (gets denser) until it reaches the freezing point, whose density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can add significant pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a dye, it exhibits the typical behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice protects the water below, preventing it from freezing hard. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die out during the winter. In addition, this irregular behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that spreads heat around the oceans of the planet. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can obtain a special interaction. Level transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or freezes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (called boiling throughout the liquid). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by depositing on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure until the ice on its surface sinks. The melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of the melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most materials, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 ° C (401 ° F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. High altitude cooking takes longer than sea level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at one point called the triple point, where all three levels can be together. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called a critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from the properties of ambient water) are concentration sensitive. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a number of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically asymmetric solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's crust, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water levels
The typical form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been tested experimentally and several more are expected theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic ice phase, superionic, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of compact oxygen atoms in which hydrogen flowed freely. When spread between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are poorly understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the fact that it has two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually contains many solvents which can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potential of water to avoid water that is too salty or too salty. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed against a white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are tones of OH–H stretching vibration. The intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with a swimming pool when the sunlight is reflected from the white tiles of the swimming pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of lower water sounds means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm - 1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and impermeable to water; One material commonly used for the cuvette windows with aqueous solutions is calcium fluoride. The fundamental Raman-active vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Sunlight almost never reaches the parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while some of the hydrogen atoms are positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is characterized as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also releases many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter gives carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also unstable, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in its liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with nearby molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds in water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of these, 90% are estimated to be due to electrostatics, and the remaining 10% are partially covalent. These connections cause water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All empty plants, such as trees, depend on this property. Self-isolation
Water is a dilute solution of hydronium hydroxide – it has an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH− along with a solution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrolysis and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the addition of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its pressure ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10 - 10 Pa - 1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental awareness (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. Hydrology is the study of water distribution. Hydrology is the study of the distribution and movement of ground water, glaciation is glaciology, inland waters is geology and oceanography is oceanography. Ecological processes with water are at the heart of ecohydrology. The bulk of water found on, under, and over a planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of the Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or lake. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. The water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, ice, are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment creates many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, ground water, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle which includes the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and movement from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. usually reaching the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean mostly returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff into the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and movement occurring in land masses also adds another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some coming from fog and dew. Dew are tiny water droplets that thicken when a high concentration of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is at its lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to form a rainbow. Runoff often accumulates over waterways draining into rivers. Through erosion, running water shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat terrain for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when a piece of land, usually low-lying, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when an area experiences a lack of water supply. This occurs when an area receives consistently below average rainfall either because of topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water sources
Water resources are natural resources of water that may be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world's total freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the other 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water is stored is highly variable: some aquifers are stored over thousands of years, but the size of lakes can vary seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A substantial fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decrease. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, causing groundwater depletion. Tides and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the main ocean varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea is a salt lake, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of 30 to 40%.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of sea water bodies and estuaries and produce oscillatory currents known as tidal currents. The variable tide produced in a given location is the result of the changing position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth together with the effect of the Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The strip of shoreline that is submerged at low tide and exposed at high tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many unique properties that are essential for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow reproduction. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential both as a solution in which many of the body's supplies dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, lipids, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme action. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values ​​less than 7 and bases have values ​​greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the Earth are filled with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species have both, such as the lungfish. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must occasionally surface to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little specialization for respiration in water. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and tributaries flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber river. Large cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are due in part to the easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have thrived for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made by filtration or distillation, or through a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is known by various names other than potable water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Water for bathing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of turning wastewater (usually sewage, known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recycled by the natural hydrological cycle, but there are pressures on its access due to its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, increasing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and rising populations. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards that goal has not been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. poor water quality and deadly sanitation; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of municipal wastewater remains untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these produce more water each year than is replenished through their natural water cycles. The stress not only affects surface fresh water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also depletes groundwater resources. Human habits
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for up to 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of the freshwater withdrawn is used for irrigation, but most of the water "wasted" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying and delivering water, and removing waste water. But economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasingly concerned with water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, as water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands arise for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, there are new water challenges. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed the growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped areas of water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or sufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to satisfy the demand for water. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing current food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing demands for food, while businesses and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is being consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. The environment has been severely damaged: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as being equal to "the total weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cubic centimeter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times larger, was needed. Work was therefore commissioned to determine precisely the volume of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the prescribed definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F) - a very reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the maximum concentration of water, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple water point, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is composed mostly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the specification Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. To drink
The human body is, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommend that 3.7 L (0.98 US gallons) of water be taken in daily for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or drinks as well as drinking straight water. Medical literature favors a lower consumption, usually 1 liter of water for an average male, without additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of alcohol intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "A normal amount for diverse people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared food." The most recent dietary intake report by the US National Research Council recommended overall water intake, based on the average amount of water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that approx. 1% water intake in total food in the study. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a significant amount of fluid is lost during nursing. It is also noted that, usually, about 20% of water comes from food, and the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (caffeine included). Water is removed from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweating, and by exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutions are acceptable and even desirable to enhance taste and provide needed electrolytes. The largest freshwater resource (by size) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Congress
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and usually as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these features are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water has been observed. Pure water has been the subject of recent research. Oxygen-rich superheated water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Even cool water can be naturally available from a lake or the sea. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through vaporization and condensation of water due to the large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to convert the waste heat into a body of water or carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, the largest use of water is cooling power plants. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. But other methods of stopping reaction are preferred and the nuclear core is preferably kept covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fiery thoughts
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good firefighting fluid. Evaporating water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic solvents because many organic substances float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of these explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from a fire but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that they become a fire hazard. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced material that is often transported in paper bags. If these are moved through, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lake sides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and appearance of flowing water calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and business. Water supply facilities include water wells, ditches for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected at springs, extracted from artificial holes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. It is therefore possible to build more wells in suitable places to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need purification for human consumption. This may include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are filtering with sand which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation does all three functions. There are more advanced methods, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no cost. Another option is to reduce use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution is perhaps the single greatest misuse of water; to the extent that pollution limits other uses of water, it is a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the pollution. As with other types of pollution, this does not enter into standard accounting of market costs, being imagined as externalities that cannot be accounted for by the market. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, who suffer from this pollution. Pharmaceuticals that people consume often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they accumulate biomass and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated at wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted water runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Business applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slides or using water to dissolve and extract materials, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical crushing, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, which require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water power. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a waterwheel connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. The energy is provided by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and the heat exchanger, as well as being used as a chemical solvent. Pollution is the discharge of untreated water from industrial use. Contamination includes dissolved solutes (chemical pollution) and dissolved cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification methods in both water supply and distribution. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI can threaten "global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersion of food in water or its gaseous, steamy state. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Solvents such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. Solutes, as well as air pressure, affect the boiling and freezing points of water, which in turn are affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature due to the lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles decreases the freezing point of water. Solutions in water also affect the activity of water which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solving in water reduces water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can have a significant impact on product quality, as well as playing a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and locational factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this stream of matter finally impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is quickly produced in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water has been common in the universe for almost life". Water has been found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water may also be abundant in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems appear to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as a vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and a lot of water in the exosphere of Mercury
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in ice only; and the moon of Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn - in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts less than 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even found in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circular disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Melted water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of the south pole of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Lunar Mineral Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's Moons: the surface of Europa and also the surfaces of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
the Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects associated with the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud
And it seems also present on:

the poles of Mercury
He will flee

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably contain much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deepest layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the liquid oxygen. Water and planet habitat
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential for life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer to or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that would allow all three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in constant amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on environmental pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is large enough, the water can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as seen on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics that is influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but around one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be at risk based on water. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a source of safe water since 1990. It is estimated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report from the United Nations has stated that access to water to enough said that there is "enough water". mismanagement and corruption. In addition, donors in the water sector have not adopted global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, their effectiveness in education and health, which may leave several donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to intervene. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as one reason for some water shortages. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about identifying which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to the places and contexts of the developing world. The Mekong river is one example; a study by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been said to be endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. But over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has increased fourfold, and flooding in mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations related to water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention against Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity had entered the "Water Crisis" period as more than 50% of great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries that are water insecure, 4 billion people were experiencing water scarcity every year73. He called for policies that are in line with reality rather than past conventions. In culture
Faith
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or immersion) of a person in water is a major Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed mostly after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to purify a person or an area (eg, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for baptism, blessing people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is considered the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and he saw it as ylem, or the basic substance of the universe. Thales, who portrayed Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, came out of the water. Thales, a monk, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato considered the icosahedron to be the shape of water - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as being cold and damp. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "Highest excellence is like water. The excellence of water appears in its benefiting all things, and in possessing, without yielding (on the other hand), the low place to which all men do not like. Therefore (its path) is close to (the way of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and strong there is nothing that can give priority to it - because there is nothing (so effective) that can be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 explains later as a symbol of water, expressing the properties of water and naming water. of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic stories as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dualism of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept associated with magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Arts and activities
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" is in the form of a quiz of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called the "Water Hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply "a series of monotonous truths", but its phrases, like their theme, "ebb and flow, swell and swell, gather and break, until they enter the calm silence of the conclusion 'plagued fences, faded flowery water, dead lakes' in the ever-growing passage. According to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, performing "the unenviable task of building into poetry every lump of information that has accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the theme of the novel "eternal, eternal life," and the hymn represents the ending of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn expressed in its entirety. What in water was Bloom, water lover, water drawer, water carrier returning to the field, looking? Its universality: its democratic equality and the stability of its nature in seeking its own level: the vastness of the ocean predicted by Mercator: its unplumbed depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific Ocean crossing 8,000 points of surface visiting every point of the surface of the wave and every point of deficiency. shore: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrokinetic calmness in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in ebb and flow: its stretching after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar, arctic and antarctic ice-caps: its climatic and commercial importance: its presumption of 3 expanding the globe in the aridity of the globe: leagues over the whole region under the sub-tropical Capricorn: the manifold stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsula and receding peninsula: its weak volume and density: its high pressure and density: its weak pressure and density; tarns: its degree of color in the temperate and frigid zones: its vehicle effects in continental lakes including streams and rivers flowing into the ocean with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf currents, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in tides, water glasses, artesian wells, torrents, eruptions, eruptions, new eruptions of aqueducts, passages of water, geysers, cataracts, whirlwinds, earthquakes, floods, floods, clouds: its wide circuitous curve: its secret in the springs, and the hidden moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric devices and symbolized by the well at the Ashtilation wall, the saltiness of the air by the hole of the city. as simple as it is, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing properties: its vitality in the waters of the Dead Sea: its constant persistence in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaking on shipboard: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire: nourishing its paragonomism and organism: nourishing its paragonomism. as vapor, fog, clouds, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in tight hydrants: its various forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and splits and seas and lakes and atolls and islands and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its firmness in glaciers, the icebergs, its streams, the icebergs, its streams; dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and gravel docks: its capacity due to tides or water courses falling from level to level: its submarine animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants 90%, to literally: the universe. the human body: the fragility of its whiskey in lacustrine swamps, poisoned fences, faded flower water, dead pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored a year-long campaign by the Cathedral regarding our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna McLeod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the declaration of access to water and sanitation as a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rare chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that mock the scientifically illiterate. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story involved safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Additional reading
External links

World water data sheet
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
History of Water Conflicts: Water Conflicts Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Science (USGS)
Portal to World Bank strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the net
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Opinions, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for Fire and Water Buildings Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary