Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical. It is the main component of the world's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is the fluid of all known living things, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, despite not providing dietary energy or being a natural micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical consistency, its abundance in the world, and its strong polarity in relation to its small size, water is called "the love of the world". Because the Earth's atmosphere and pressure are three times that of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It causes precipitation in the form of rain and wind in the form of precipitation. Clouds consist of water droplets and suspended ice, its solid state. When properly separated, crystalline ice can form precipitation in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas containing the largest amount of water (about 96.5%). Smaller parts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (which consist of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continues to move through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by ship across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industries and homes. Water is an excellent force for many things, both mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes and cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, recreational boating, sailing, surfing, fishing, diving, skiing, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (root of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (that is)), from Proto-Indo-European *root *wededor' (suffixedor'). Also cognate, through Indo-European roots, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdor), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vavj. History
In the world
Goods
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical and is sometimes described as "the love of the world" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any liquid, although it is not good at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be a "removal of life": indeed, water as found in nature is almost always composed of various dissolved substances, and special processes are required to obtain clean water. Water is the only common substance to exist as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the element H2O; is also the water level of H2O. The other two states of liquid culture are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. In addition to removing heat can cause changes in time: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), steam (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and storage (steam to ice). Too much
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools in certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural phenomenon that does this during water. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes less dense during freezing, although it is not different from this. At pressure 1, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches freezing point, whose density in liquid form is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create high pressures, burst pipes and tear rocks. As a solid, it shows a tendency to contract and expand as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the surface of the water. This ice freezes the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, many aquatic creatures living in the lakes will perish during the winter. In addition, this interesting phenomenon is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the world's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, with a strong magnet can have a good interaction. Climate change
At one atmospheric pressure (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0°C (32°F) and water boils or vaporizes at 100°C (212°F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to steam at its surface by evaporation (the absence of water in water is called boiling). Sublimation and embossing also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on a cold surface while snow is formed by depositing on air particles or ice. During freeze-drying, food is frozen and stored under low pressure so that the ice on its surface grows. Melting points and boiling points depend on pressure. A good estimate for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\display v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of water and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the latent heat of melting. In most cases, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the temperature increases with the pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In snow, pressure melting can occur under enough frozen ice, creating underground lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can exist in liquid form at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205°C (401°F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hot air, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the heat. In a vacuum, water will boil at body temperature. Three times the important points
On pressure/temperature diagrams (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet in one place called triple, where all three levels can be together. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure that water can be. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/steam phase ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid phase and vapor form a continuous layer called solid water. It can be slowly compressed or expanded between many gases and liquids such as water; Its properties (which are different from those of natural water) are very sensitive. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including many compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as a neutral catalyst or catalyst in chemical reactions involving compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Levels of ice and water
The most common form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with a hexagonal shape. Another with a similar cubic structure, ice Ic, can occur in the atmosphere above. As the pressure increases, the ice forms certain crystal structures. By 2024, twenty experiments have been confirmed and many others have been theoretically predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, a medium-cubic, large-scale form of ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to shock waves that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, which created a structure of stable oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of freshwater are not well understood; Some theories suggest that the unusual behavior is due to the presence of two states of water. Taste and smell
Pure water is described as having no taste or smell, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from normal sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have acquired the ability to judge the potential of water to avoid water that is too salty. Color and appearance
Pure water looks blue because it absorbs light in the c region. 600-800 nm. Color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in the sunlight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the O-H stretching transitions. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with the swimming pool when the sun shines from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the higher power of the smaller water means that glass can be used with a shorter path. To observe the exact stretching spectrum of water or of an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and not soluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Important active Raman vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to a depth of hundreds of meters, because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight can reach parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) of depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass (1.6). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of water. Cell polarity
In water molecules, hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5 ° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the tetrahedron that are on the oxygen. At the other two angles only pairs of valence electrons do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atom has a positive charge. With a bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a boundary molecule. Water has a good polar force, it dissolves many salts and hydrophilic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. The interaction between water and parts of these molecules determines protein folding, DNA binding, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Most natural substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many elements are insoluble as well, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its large size, water molecules in water or natural resources can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonding is about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also revealed specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J / (g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J / g), heat of vaporization (2257 J / g), and thermal expansion (between 0.561 and 0.679 W / (m·K)). These properties make water more effective in regulating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bond of water is around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the strong O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90 percent can be attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is a covalent component. These compounds are the cause of water tension and the force of the body. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property depends on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is the weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is a ratio of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-, combined with the solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrolysis and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic materials such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reaction (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Engineering equipment
Water can be considered immiscible for many reasons: its density varies from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa-1 in normal conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 ATM, water suffers only 1.8% decrease in volume. The density of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels far in the water with a small amount, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), the property that cetaceans and humans use to communicate and understand the environment (sonar). Reactivity
Metals that are more electronegative than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water in the world. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of ground water is hydrology, of glaciers is glaciology, of internal waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Environmental methods with hydrology are in focus in ecology. The water found on the ground, and on the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. The average amount of water in the world (total water supply in the world) is 1.386 cubic kilometers (333 cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, streams, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in nature in the form of solids, water, and vapor. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many soil processes. Groundwater is contained in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects the erosion process. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in the collapsed areas. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical processes and climates. Water, and to a lesser but still important, ice, are also responsible for much of the transport that occurs on Earth's surface. The deposition of transported solids produces many types of rocks, which record the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in water, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves forever through each of these regions in the water cycle which involves the following transfer processes:

evaporation from the oceans and other waters into the air and absorption of plants from the soil and animals into the air. Precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or sea. storms from land usually reach the ocean. Most of the water vapor that is found in the sea usually returns to it, but the winds take the water vapor over the land in the same way as the flow of water flows in the sea, about 47 Tt every year while the emission of air and wind that occurs on the ground also gives an additional 72 Tt every year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, is of various forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when excess water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew occurs in the morning when the temperature is lowest, before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Water vapor in the air can block sunlight to form a rainbow. The water collects on the drains that flow into the rivers. Through soil erosion, drainage shapes the formation of river valleys and skeletons that provide fertile soil and ground level for the establishment of public institutions. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually the ground, is filled with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a period of months or years when an area experiences a lack of water. This occurs when an area receives below average precipitation either because of its climate or because of its location in latitude. Water resources
Water resources are water resources that are useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or streams, and ice and snow. Of the total amount of water in the world, an estimated 69 percent is in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in underground water; and the remaining 1 percent for lakes, rivers, climate, and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage varies greatly: some aquifers contain water that has been stored for thousands of years, but the number of lakes can fluctuate periodically, decreasing during droughts and increasing during irrigation. A significant portion of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in stocks, and if the withdrawal exceeds the recharge, the stock is reduced. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, and smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in several important ways. It freezes at low temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the main seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Black Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local water levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in water depth and estuarine waters and create currents of motion known as tidal currents. The change in tides produced elsewhere is the result of changes in the position of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and the local tides. A coastal trench that is submerged in a current and is exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological model of the current. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has various properties that are important for the development of life. It performs this role by allowing natural compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential component of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from cells (through energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger cells (for example, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for storage of fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break down bonds to produce small molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to use energy for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these specific forms of life cannot exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use this energy and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to absorb solar energy and fix water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutralization and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative minus hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in ideal conditions. Acids have a pH value below 7 while bases have a pH value above 7. Aquatic life systems
Earth's surface water is full of life. The first life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the source of some underwater life. Plankton is generally the cornerstone of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and the like need to come up from time to time to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a variety of adaptations for life in oxygen-poor water including breathing tubes (see insects and siphon mollusc) and gills (Carcinus). However, while the aquatic life has evolved in the aquatic habitat, most lack the skills or experience to breathe in the water. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and large waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lies between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptians depended on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (ca. 3300 BCE – 1300 BCE) flourished along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Major metropolitan cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, thrive for this reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water is also a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human use is called drinking water or drinking water. Non-potable water can be made by filtration or distillation, or by other different methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but does not harm a person when used for swimming or bathing is called by different names other than drinking water or drinking water, and sometimes it is called clean water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane inflammation that is used to ensure water for bathing or drinking. Its use is very technical and usually monitored by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of chlorine has not yet reacted with dirty bathing water). Water for bathing can be kept in a good bacterial environment by using disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also called municipal waste) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of wastewater is generated worldwide every year. Water is a renewable resource, it is cycled through the hydrological cycle, but the pressure on its availability is caused by inconsistencies in space and time, increasing economic needs through agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people in the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In the year 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals to reduce the number of people in the world without access to clean water and sanitation by 2015. Progress on this goal has not been consistent, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to sustainable development to achieve the global goal of providing clean water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; some water-related diseases are the cause of five million deaths a year. The World Health Organization estimates that clean drinking water could prevent 1.4 million children from dying from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated into rivers and streams. Another 50 countries, which account for about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of these release more water each year than is recharged by the hydrological system. The permit not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also damages ground water resources. Human benefits
Agriculture
The most common water used in agriculture, including irrigation, accounts for 80 to 90 percent of the water consumed by humans. In the United States, 42 percent of the water that is withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify, deliver water, and remove contaminated water. But economic growth, population, and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for clean water resources, leading to the concept of peak water. As the population and economy continue to grow, the consumption of thirsty meat increases, and new demands for increased water resources or new water industries, potentially new water challenges. The International Water Agency in Sri Lanka conducted an Agricultural Water Management Assessment in 2007 to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. She assessed the current availability of agricultural water in the world and planned the areas suffering from water shortages. It has been found that one fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas suffering from water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. In addition, some 1.6 billion people live in areas suffering from the problem of drinking water, where the lack of investment in water or the lack of human capacity makes the authorities unable to meet the demand for water. The report shows that it will be possible to provide the food needed in the future, but continuing to provide food today and the environment will cause conflict in many parts of the world. To avoid the problem of drinking water in the world, farmers will try to increase the amount of crops to meet the needs of food, while industries and cities are looking for ways to use water properly. In addition, water scarcity is caused by the production of water-related products. For example, cotton: 1 kilogram of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of pants—requires 10.9 cubic meters of water (380 cubic meters) to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is used in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Serious environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific measure
On April 7, 1795, the gram was declared in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a quantity of pure water equal to the cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of the melting of ice". For practical purposes though, a reference scale of iron, which is a thousand times larger, is needed. So work was ordered to determine the exact amount of one liter of water. Although the standard definition of the gram determined water at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - a high temperature - scientists chose to redefine the equation and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest water, which was measured at the time as 4 ° C (39 ° F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann point instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius scale, which is based on the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water contains mostly the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The amount of heavy isotopes is small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes carries fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard seawater is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The American Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends drinking 3.7 liters (US gallons) of water per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The correct amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is consumed through food or drink other than drinking water directly. Medical literature prefers low consumption, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional needs due to water loss from exercise or warm weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than needed during exercise, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water every day" seems to have no basis in fact in science. Studies show that drinking more water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, is associated with weight loss. Getting enough water helps prevent constipation. The original recommendations for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the United States of America Research Agency said: "The normal amount for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The National Research Council's new dietary intake report generally recommends, based on the average amount of water from US research data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water provided for women, excluding total fluid intake. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need more water to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), since a lot of water is lost during nursing. It is also worth noting that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from water and soft drinks (including caffeinated). Water is removed from the body in several ways; through urine and faeces, through sweat, and the release of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily water needs may increase. People need less polluted water. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and pathogenic bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The largest (by size) water resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Bath
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolve many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds related to water. In chemistry, it is not usually used as a solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desired. Also, enhancement of the Diels-Alder reaction with water was observed. Water that is more important has recently been the subject of research. Oxygen-enriched supercritical water effectively burns harmful particles. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to its availability and heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can actually be from a lake or ocean. It is particularly effective for heat transport by steam and condensation due to its high latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals found in industries such as steel and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all power stations, water is used as working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam engine, and cooling device), and cooling (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or take it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, electric coolers are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can be used as a moderator of neutrons. In most nuclear power plants, water is both the coolant and the medium. This provides something of a safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also reduces nuclear power. However other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is preferred to cover the nuclear core with water to ensure adequate cooling. Consider fire
Water has a high temperature of vaporization and is tasteless, which makes it a good fire extinguisher. The water source absorbs the heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and natural solvents because most of the organic matter floats on the water and the water tends to spread the flammable liquid. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the risk of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when things that react with water, such as some metals or hot carbon like coal, coal, or graphite coke, destroy water, produce gas. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case did not come from the fire extinguisher but from the reactor coolant. A steam explosion occurs when the extreme heat of its core causes water to collapse into steam. The hydrogen explosion was probably caused by something between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce a lot of heat in reaction with water that the risk of fire may arise. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced material that is often shipped in bags. If these get wet, they can burn as their contents react with water. Entertainment
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and sight of water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in ponds or lakes for display, entertainment, and companionship. Also, people use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowshoeing or snowboarding, which requires the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply systems, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes and old aqueducts. Seasonal water machines are still being produced. Drinking water is usually collected at springs, pumped from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or discharged from lakes and rivers. The construction of many wells in sufficient places is therefore a possible way to produce large amounts of water, assuming that the aquifers can produce enough water. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This can include the removal of undigested substances, dissolved substances and harmful bacteria. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation does all three functions. There are more advanced technologies, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of seawater is the most cost-effective solution used in poor coastal conditions. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no cost. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets in the city to conserve water resources. Contaminated water can be the single biggest disadvantage of water; to the extent that water pollution limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the use of the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter the standard accounting of the market, being considered as an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local population, who are affected by this pollution. Chemicals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can harm aquatic life if they accumulate and if they are not concentrated. Domestic and industrial waste water is usually treated in a wastewater treatment plant. Contamination of surface water is dealt with by prevention and a variety of techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions by using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and remove substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical conversion, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use a lot of water, require dedicated water sources, and often result in water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from electricity. Electric power comes from the water and drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is produced by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river, and a temporary reservoir is created behind it. The water from the lake is forced through a turbine that turns a generator. High pressure water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for accurate cutting. It works great, it's safe, and it doesn't harm the environment. It is also used in engine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent the motor from overheating. Water is also used in many industries and machines, such as steam engines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical. Untreated water discharge from industrial use is pollution. The damage includes emissions (chemical pollution) and coolant emissions (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses different purification techniques both in water supply and output. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or a gaseous, steamy environment. Water is also used to wash food. Water also plays an important role in the field of food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar found in water affect the properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by the content of solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn affects altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with less air which occurs at higher temperatures. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the concentration of dissolved particles decreases the compressibility of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and bacterial growth in food. The activity of water can be described as the ratio of the pressure of water in a solution of pure water vapor. Solutes in water lower water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth ends at low water activity levels. Not only the growth of microorganisms affects the safety of food, but also the storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using chemical ion exchange systems. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, and play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also state that this is a global average and that trends determine the amount of water used in beef production. Using a doctor
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Divided in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by strong outer winds and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding air, the shock waves created compress and heat the air. The liquid that is seen is produced very quickly in this heated gas. On July 22, 2011, a report announced the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more than all the world's oceans combined" in a region 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the study shows that water is abundant in almost the entire universe". Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other planets, and, because of its components, hydrogen, and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the patterns of formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, many other star systems may have similar chemical compositions. Water vapor
Water exists as a vapor in:

Solar System: in the detected amount
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a lot of water in the exosphere of Mercury
Venus Mode: 0.002%
Earth's temperature: ≈0.40% above full temperature, usually 1-4% above
Lunar condition: in large quantities
Mars Mode: 0.03%
The weather of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and of the moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
The condition of Uranus - in the amount below 50 bars
Nature of Neptune - found in deep layers
Extrasolar planets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Planetary conditions: not limited to cold stars but also found in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Disc circle: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. The water
Water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in Saturn's moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers under Enceladus' south polar, and Titan, as a layer of soil, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest a subsurface ocean. Water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between ice and rock. Water ice
Water behaves like ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: mostly like ice sheets on Earth and lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the Earth and on the mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other Kuiper belt related Oort cloud objects
It can also be on:

Mercury bars
Tethys

Amazing features
Water and other variables probably make up most of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deep layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules are broken down in a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deep still like deep water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float about freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and world life
The presence of liquid water, and some of its gaseous and frozen forms, on Earth is very important for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), conditions that allow all three species to exist at the same time would be less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its strength allows it to retain atmosphere, including moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other gases in the atmosphere provide a measure of temperature (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain the relative temperature while it is in normal amounts. The temperature of the water on the planet depends on the pressure of the atmosphere, which is determined by the weight of the earth. If the planet is very large, the water in it can be strong even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and conflict
Water politics is the politics affected by water. Water, especially drinking water, is a strategic resource all over the world and an important factor in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved over the years in almost every part of the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to clean drinking water and over 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face the problem of water shortage. A report released in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, the demand for water will exceed the supply of water by 50%. About 1.6 billion people have had access to clean water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water has been estimated from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report reached the United Nations. mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve the quality of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid, have not been used by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have in the fields of education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on projects that are overwhelmed by recipient governments without giving them the power to act. The authors of the 2007 statistics for the management of agriculture, explained the lack of good governance as a reason for some types of water scarcity. Water management is a formal and informal process in which decisions are made regarding water management. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in physical and social situations. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in developed countries to developing areas and global contexts. The Mekong River is one example; A review by the World Water Agency of six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water supply found that cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment were not done enough. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law is more complicated than it needs to be. In 2004, WaterAid, a British charity, reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from simple water-related diseases, which are often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Agency, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report shows that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water while 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by the year 2050. Water scarcity has been described as an epidemic, due to over-consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries that suffer from severe water problems. Yet over the past 40 years, the amount of water has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until the year 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by 2.5 percent. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations involved in water protection include the World Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The World Water Agency is conducting projects aimed at using water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day is on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered a "Water Scarcity" era because more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-scarce countries, 4 billion people suffer from water scarcity every year, and at least 7 billion people suffer from water scarcity every year. year. He called for policies that are based on reality rather than the old principles. In the culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleansing agent in many religions. Faiths that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Baptism (or aspersion or immersion) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); It is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a holy bath with pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, five prayers can be performed in most cases after washing some parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayamum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to wash a person or place (for example, in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that is purified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as ylem, or the essence of the world. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, thought that earth, which is more dense than water, came from water. Thales, a monist, believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The four principles of physical pleasure associate water with phlegm, as cold and damp. Also, the traditional element of water is one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's translation of the Dao De Jing in 1891 said, "The highest value is like (that of) water. The highest value of water is manifested in its use for all things, and in its occupation, without effort (on the contrary), the low place that all men do not want. Therefore (its way) is close to (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world more tender and weak than water, and yet to attack things with strength and power nothing can prevent it - because nothing (effective) can be changed." Attitudes of people in different regions of China to the state of domestic water resources
"Living water" in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian living water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of a magical water that allegedly prevents aging. Art and struggle
In the great modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "poem of water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the poem is not only a "monotonous string of facts", where, the phrases, such as the subject, "the ebb that flowed, over the swell, gather and break, until they subside in the calm quiescence of the completion of 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, dirty pools in a branch of scripture in another branch of scripture in another branch in another branch. Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves the "impossible result of the poem and all the information gathered in the school books." The source of the story of "eternal life," and the poem represents the end of the book. What is in the water Bloom, the water drawer, the water carrier? and perpetuity to the situation in search of his own level: its size in the ocean of Mercator's projection: the unplumbed profundity in the Sundam along the Pacific Ocean exceeds 8,000 and the restlessness on the surface exceeds 8,000 fathoms. points of the ocean: the independence of its units: the difference in the states of the ocean: the state of the water in calmness: its hydrokinetic turgidity in sea water and spring water: its reduction after destruction: its vulnerability in the ice mountains, arctic and antarctic: climatic conditions and commercial importance: the nature that cannot be forgotten. hegemony extending in the sports square over all the area below the sub-tropics of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its first basin: its interesting heritage: its ability to melt and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: the slow spread of peninsulas and downwardtending and growing and failing: it grew and failed: it grew and failed: it grew and failed. unevenness in the lagoons and mountain ranges: gradation of colors in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its ramifications in the continental ocean containing streams and confluent seaflowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south water wells, artquatorial courses: artquatorial wells. eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its wide circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its secret in springs, and latent heat, which is expressed by pulsations or pulsations. in the wall at the entrance of Ashtown, saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing properties: buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: resistance to entering runnels, gullies, insufficient dams, cleaning on a ship, cleaning and its properties on a ship. Nutrient plants: its infallibility as a metaphor and paragon: metamorphoses as steam, fog, clouds, rain, sleet, snow, ice: its strength in strong water: its variety in loughs and bays and gulfs and gulfs and guts and lagoons and atolls and islands and islands and sounds and waves in the sea. glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its power in the work of turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its use in streams, rivers, if navigable, floating rivers: its potential to be obtained from streams or falls. flora (anacoustic, photophobe) numbers, if not actually, inhabitants of the world: everywhere as 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, dangerous pools in the waning moon. The artist and activist Fredericka Foster took care of the value of Water, in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, who initiated a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on water dependence. The largest exhibition ever presented at the Cathedral, it features over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Thinking About Water, a group of environmental artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the United Nations declaring access to water and sanitation as a human right, WaterAid has commissioned 10 visual artists to demonstrate the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used name for water. This name was used in a series of slurs and slurs mocking scientific ignorance. It all started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day story appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake news contains safety concerns about the product. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further some rappers have made songs entirely dedicated to water in Florida, like Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
Talk
The works mentioned
Read more
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
History of Water Crisis: History of Water Crisis Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to World Bank strategy, work and publications related to water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water systems and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Opinions, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Archived water chemistry 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for Marine Products and Storage Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary