Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent chemical substance, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless. It is the main component of Earth's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is very important for all life forms to know, although it does not provide food energy or is not an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are composed of water droplets and suspended ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (including ice and liquid water suspended in air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually to the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in saltwater and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, including swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, sailing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or,'w suffixed-form ofwater *; Also cognate, via the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), English location 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vajë. History
On Earth
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, even though it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain pure chemical water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. United States
Along with oxidants, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. Two other common states of matter in water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools to certain temperatures; it is the only known natural substance that does this during liquid. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, even if it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert great pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it shows the normal behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would perish during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetic
Water is a diamagnetic material. Even if the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a remarkable interaction. Phase transition
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization of the entire liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, gel is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the process of freeze-drying, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimes. The melting and boiling points depend on pressure. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation provides a good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

place 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 is the molar volume of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting pressure can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the ocean floor or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. High altitude cooking takes longer than sea level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by one fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple point and criticism
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascal (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which differ from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the appropriate pressure and temperature it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemical and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice phase and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a crystal-forming phase with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several more are predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that increased the water pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Water is more visible blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption band responsible for the color is the tone of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is the sunlight reflected in the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower tones in water means that glass cuvettes and shorter path lengths can be employed. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or in an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm-1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is necessary. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a common material for window panes and aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches the parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), as are those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerin (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and the common type of glass 1.644. The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. In the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving the fizz in fizzy drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules forms protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to an O-H covalent bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants rely on this property, including trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydroxide hydroxide – has an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with hydroxide solvation and the resulting hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic materials such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy than the heat from the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility varies between 4.4 and 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the ocean at 4 km depth, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km to 1 kHz), a property that cetaceans and humans exploit for communication and environmental detection (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen in water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes and hydrology are in the ecological focus. The collective mass of water found on, under, and on the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. The majority of water on Earth is sea water. Water is present in the atmosphere also in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves constantly through each of the following regions of the water cycle which includes the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing in the air and falling on the land or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean returns to it, but wind brings water vapor to the land at the same rate as runoff from the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute another 72 Tt annually. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on earth, takes many forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature of the earth begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff water often collects on watersheds that drain into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich and level land for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is an extended period of months or years when a region notices a deficit in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives below average precipitation either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent of groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can vary on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A considerable fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in stock, and when withdrawal exceeds recharge, stock decreases. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, resulting in groundwater depletion. Sea and tidal water
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature at the freezing point, instead of reaching the maximum density at a higher temperature when freezing. The salinity of seawater varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine waters and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The tidal changes produced at a given location are the result of changes in the position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth as well as the effects of the Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The intertidal zone, which is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, is an important ecological product of the ocean tide. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are very important for the propagation of life. It carries out this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is also important as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg starch, triglycerides, and proteins to store fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture energy from the sun and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface water is teeming with life. The first life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in many ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface occasionally to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated water, including breathing tubes (see insect siphons and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically developed around rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC - c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber river. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with clean water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean water. Water that is not fit for drinking but is not dangerous to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by many names other than drinking water or potable water, and is sometimes called clean water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine and impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, which is recycled by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on its access come from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and rising populations. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress toward this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation can kill people; About five million people die each year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, suffer from either moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is recharged through the natural water cycle. The strain not only affects surface fresh water such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developing countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify, and deliver water, and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are raising concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, resulting in the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption increases, and new demands increase for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and four places suffering from water scarcity. He found that one fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where the lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for the authorities to meet the demand for water. The report found that it would be possible to produce the necessary food in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crisis in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of world water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water shortages. Significant environmental damage was caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical reasons though, they demanded a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram. That is why work was commissioned to determine precisely the mass of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the definition enacted in the gram specifies water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make the measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was measured at that time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale in the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine in the United States recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are ingested through food or drink without drinking straight water. Medical literature favors a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, except for extra requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies show that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council reads: "An ordinary standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The latest dietary reference intake report by the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, which does not include water in about 19% of food. the survey. Especially, pregnant and lactating women need more fluids to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), because a large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. Also notice is that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (caffeine included). Water is eliminated from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweat, and the breath of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss increases and daily fluid needs may also increase. People need water with some impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Wash
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reagents well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. But these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction by water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been a research topic. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam is a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Fresh water can even be naturally available in a lake or the sea. It is especially effective for transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water because of its high latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, power plant cooling is the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction down. However, other methods are favored to stop a reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water so as to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on a very hot fire in a closed space, and in a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or graphite coke, decompose the water, producing gaseous water. The power of these explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from fire fighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these are soaked in, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, sailing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and appearance of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial holes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate locations is thus a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide an adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve removing insoluble substances, soluble substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are filtration with sand which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tanker deliveries or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need free of charge. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution can be the biggest misuse of water; To the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this is not included in the standard accounting of market costs, being conceived as externalities for which the market cannot account. So others pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, who are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have detrimental effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. A variety of prevention and treatment techniques are addressed to reduce runoff from polluted surfaces. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, solid suspensions in water suspensions or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity from hydropower. Hydroelectric energy comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is an inexpensive, non-polluting renewable energy source. The energy is supplied by the movement of the water. Typically a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in the cooling of machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged irrigation water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques both in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used to wash the dishwasher. Water also plays an important role in the field of food science. Solvents such as salt and sugar found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is in turn affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures and lower air pressures at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solvents in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solitary in lower water activity- this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg / L (UK) or less than 60 mg / L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by an outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves create compression and heat the gas. The observed water is quickly produced from this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 billion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost all of its existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, because its elements, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the solar system and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in trace amounts detected
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, with large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere. Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the entire atmosphere, usually 1–4% of the surface
The Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in ice only; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disk: including those that contain more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC + 10216 and APM 08279 + 5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon System
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it is also possible to present on:

Mercury poles
Tethys

Exotic shape
Water and other volatiles probably contain much of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deepest layers can be in the form of ionic water where the molecules are broken into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen is crystallized, but the hydrogen ions float on free oxygen. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present at the same time would be less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to maintain an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively steady surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as it was observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a clean water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without autonomy to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the combination of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes are sometimes made in trying to apply 'plans' that work in the developed world to the developed world and context. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment were rarely undertaken. They also discovered that Cambodia's water bill was more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with severe or critical water stress. But over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute of Water Management undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "water failure" because more than 50% of the great lakes have decreased since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since the 1970s, 75% of the world's population lives in unsafe water in their countries, 4 billion people experience in one month per year. 307 billion dollars per year. He called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions such as Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (for example, in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of people, places, and objects, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and considered it a ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, came from water. Thales, a monist, believed more that everything is made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associates water with phlegm, like cold and damp. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role-model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The greatest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its benefits to everything, and in its occupying, without striving (on the contrary), the low place that everyone dislikes. Hence (its way) is close to (that of) the Dao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and strong by nothing can take precedence over it - for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." attribute the natural qualities of the people in different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic history as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept related to magical water that supposedly prevents aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as "the hymn of water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not only a "monotonous burden of reality", rather, its phrases, like the subjects, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into quiet calm at the conclusion 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning the mohynn' is one of the waning the mohynn' you think. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, realized "the improbable feat of increasing in the poetry of all the mess in the footling information accumulated in textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "life that never ends, never ending," and the hymn represents the accumulation of motifs in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in its entirety. What in water Bloom, waterlover, water drawer, watercarrier returned to the series, admired? Its universality: its democratic equality and the constancy of its nature in seeking its own level: its immensity in the ocean in the Mercator projection: its unplombled depth in the Sundam trench in the Pacific exceeds 8,000 brazadas all its particles in the rotation of its surface in the ceaseless rotation of the seaboard: its independence of units: the variation of the state of the seas: its hydrostatic tranquility in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsides after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar, arctic and antarctic ices: its climatic and commercial significance: its preponderance of 3 to 1 dry square on the earth disputes over all regions below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primitive basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and promontories which descends: its alluvial deposits: its weight and volume: its bulk and volume. its gradations of color in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: the ramifications of its machines in the continental lakes included the rivers and streams that flow like water and the oceans and the tributaries and the transoceanic currents: the course of the gulfstream, north and south equatorial: its violence in earthquakes, waterspouts, artesians, eruptions, torrents, torrents, floods. waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlwinds, maelstroms, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast horizontal circumferential curves: its secret of springs, and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well in the hole of the gate of Ashtown, in the distillation of the wall of simplicity: its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen and a constituent part of oxygen: its healing qualities them: its floating in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetration of runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, flows on ships: its properties to cleanse, quench thirst and fire, nourishing its vegetation as paradigm, metamorphos of its vegetation: water mist, clouds, rain, snow, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and estary tides and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, hydrauice working in glaciers, its hydrauice. millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachers, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its potential derives from exploiting tides or watercourses that fall from level to level: its submarines are deep and flora (anacoustic, photophobic: literally the numerical, if not human in globules). ubiquitous as constituting 90% of the human body: malevolence in its effluvia in lacustrine swamps, pestilential fens, discolored flower waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster organized Water Value, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, who anchored a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the United Nations, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that make fun of scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story was born out of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Note
Reference
Works Cited
More reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Timeline of the water conflict: the water conflict database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. School of Water Sciences (USGS)
World Bank strategy portal, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Internet
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for Water and Vapor Properties Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine. H2O: The Molecule That Makes Us, a 2020 PBS documentary