Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless. It is the main source of the world's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all living organisms, which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all forms of life, even if it does not provide energy or as an organic micronutrient. Because it exists in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called "universal solvent". Because the Earth's temperature and pressure are close to water's triple point, water exists on Earth as solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. The cloud contains water droplets and ice, its stable state. When divided properly, the crystalline ice can be made in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the ice and glaciers of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (containing ice and water released from the atmosphere), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water is used by humans for agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water has been, and still is, an important source of food for much of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Many long-distance commercial products (such as oil, gas, and manufactured goods) are transported by ships across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. A lot of water, ice, and water are used for cooling and heating in businesses and homes. Water is a heavy substance for many things, both mineral and organic; As such, it is widely used in industrial processes and cooking and cleaning. Water, ice, and snow are also essential for many sports and other recreational activities, such as swimming, recreational boating, sailing, surfing, fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-wuffs-European, ('water'; 'wet'). Also cognate, from Indo-European roots, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
In the world
The goods
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more chemicals than other liquids, although it is not good at non-polar chemicals. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water as found in nature almost always includes many dissolved substances, and special steps must be taken to obtain pure water. Water is the only substance that exists in solids, liquids, and gases in natural waters. Province
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two names of the chemical H2O; It is still the liquid phase of H2O. The other two states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause the following changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (water to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). The density
Water is one of the few substances that expands and shrinks as it cools in certain temperatures; it's the same name that happens when it's liquid. Also, it is unusual because it becomes dense when it freezes, although it is not special in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0°C (32°F), water expands (becomes lower) until it reaches the freezing point, when its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the water volume decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause huge power surges, burst pipes and broken rocks. According to the product, it shows the usual behavior of contracting and becoming more rigid when it is cold. These unusual thermal properties are essential for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sits at the bottom, and ice at the surface, floats on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms in the lake will die during the winter. In addition, this negative behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the Earth's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can have a significant effect. Phase change
At the pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or freezes (solidifies) at 0°C (32°F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100°C (212°F). However, even at lower temperatures, water can change to vapor at its source through evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by the deposition of aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the process of freeze-drying, a food is frozen and then kept at low pressure so that the ice water sublimates. The melting and boiling points are dependent on pressure. A good approximation for the change in temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  —
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most products, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, high melting will occur in sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to high temperatures, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a higher density than the liquid phase, so the temperature rises. Water can be in a liquid state at low temperatures in deep oceans or on land. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the temperature of water is 100°C (212°F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point is reduced by 1 °C every 274 meters. High-altitude cooking takes longer than sea level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by four to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce the cooking time by increasing the temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and key points
On the pressure/temperature diagram (see diagram), there are curves separating solid vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three levels come together. The triple point is a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the maximum at which liquid water exists. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the main point. At higher temperatures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be slowly compressed or expanded between oil-like and liquid-like density; its properties (which are very different from ambient water) are very sensitive to density. For example, for the right amount and temperature it can be mixed with non-polar compounds, as well as most organic compounds. This makes it useful for many applications such as high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The natural ice on Earth is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. When the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been empirically tested and many more have been predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, the face-centered-cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to waves that raised the water pressure to millions of air and its temperature to thousands of degrees, which resulted in a structure of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The chemical content of liquid water is not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to having two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have unique characteristics that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved chemicals that will give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to measure the potential of water to avoid being too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Clear water appears blue because of the absorption of light in the c region. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily seen in a glass of tap water placed on a clean face, during the day. The principle absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The clarity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This can also be used, for example, with a swimming pool when the natural light is reflected by the pool of white tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of debris or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater use of lower water means that glass cuvettes with shorter paths can be employed. To monitor the important stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous liquids in the region around 3,500 cm-1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is needed. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active vibrations can be analyzed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches the surface of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) in depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is greater than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and many types of glass (1.627). The refraction index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In the water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron in the oxygen. At the two corners is a pair of valence electrons that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms will form a 109.5 ° angle, but the repulsion of each pair is greater than the repulsion of hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other chemicals have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially charged. With the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugar and simple alcohol such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter gives the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as protein, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interaction of water and subunits of biomacromolecules like protein folding, DNA base pairs, and other important phenomena for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic compounds (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic compounds are insoluble as well, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, the molecule of water in the liquid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are more than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its unique specific heat (about 4.2 J / (g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J / g), heat of vaporization (2257 J / g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W / (m·K)). These properties make water do a better job of keeping the planet warm, by storing heat and transporting it between the ocean and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is caused by electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water pressure and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move down a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is a balance of 2H2O ⇌ H3O + + OH-, combined with the solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low charge, which causes a small separation of ionic substances such as salts. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen elements by passing electricity through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical power
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for many purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10-10 Pa−1 in ordinary conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, the pressure is 400 atm, water only 1.8% reduced volume. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. The sound travels far from water with little attenuation, especially in low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km to 1 kHz), a property that is exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metals that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. When heated, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the world. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of groundwater is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. The ecological process with hydrology is the main part of ecohydrology. The combination of water found in, under, and above the surface of the earth is called the hydrosphere. The estimated world water (total water on earth) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, streams, lakes, or ponds. Most of the water in the world is ocean water. Water also exists in the air in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as ground water in aquifers. Water is an important element in many geological processes. Ground water is found in most rocks, and the height of this ground water affects the pattern of faults. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that creates volcanoes of subduction zones. On the surface of the earth, water is an important element in both chemical and physical weather processes. Water, and to a lesser extent but how important, ice, is also responsible for transporting large sediments that appear on the surface of the earth. Deposition of transported sediment creates different types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geological record of the earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the constant exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water is constantly moving through each region in the water cycle through the following exchange processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. Precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. water flows from the land mostly to the sea. Most of the vapors found in the ocean return to it, but the wind carries the water vapor over the land at the same rate as water flows into the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurs in the land mass also causes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at the rate of 119 Tt per year in the ground, is of various types: mainly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from clouds and dew. Dew is a small amount of water that is condensed when the high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when the temperature is the coldest, before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air will refract sunlight to create a rainbow. Rivers often collect across rivers and streams into rivers. Through erosion, rivers cause the environment to create valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for the construction of public spaces. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is flooded when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, drought is a period of months or years when a region records a shortage of its water. This occurs when an area receives below average precipitation due to its location or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are resources of water that can be useful to people, for example drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as water, water vapor, groundwater or surface water, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of the world's drinking water, about 69 percent is permanently covered by ice and snow; 30 percent is on land; and the remaining 1 percent of lakes, rivers, air, and biota. The length of time the water remains in storage is variable: some reservoirs have stored water for thousands of years, but the reservoir volume changes seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant part of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from the water stored in the stock, and when the removal exceeds the return, the stock declines. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent​​​​​​ of all water used for irrigation purposes by withdrawing groundwater regularly, causing groundwater depletion. Seas and oceans
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus small amounts of other elements. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of the sea water varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of 30 and 40%, is a true salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of the local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun on the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of sea and ocean water and create tidal currents. The change in water produced by a place is the result of the change of the moon and the sun relative to the earth together with the influence of the earth's rotation and local tides. The strip of coastline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important product of ocean tides. Impact on life
From a biological perspective, water has many different properties that are important for the development of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to act in a way that ultimately allows recycling. All knowledge of life depends on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body's solvents dissolve and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is all about anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (by the energy required for enzymatic reactions) to grow molecules (for example, starches, triglycerides, and proteins to store oil and materials). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create small molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuel or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes would not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to produce sugar and release oxygen. All living cells use this fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also the basis for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, hydrogen ion (H +, that is, proton) donor, can neutralize the base, the proton acceptor such as hydroxide ion (OH-) to make water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have a pH less than 7 while bases have a pH greater than 7. Information in water
Earth's surface waters teem with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the foundation for some underwater habitats. Plankton is the main source of food in the sea. Aquatic vertebrates need to obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must surface from time to time to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit many adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated water including respiratory tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolves in aquatic environments, there is often no specialization for aquatic respiration. Impact on human progress
Civilizations have historically flourished around rivers and lakes; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, is located between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers; the ancient Egyptians lived only on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) was developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also built on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access to water and the expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, like Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water is critical to human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or drinking water. The unusable water can be made by filtration or distillation, or by many other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is known by many names other than drinking water or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. It is used very well and is often monitored by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine with impurities for bathing). Water for bathing can be kept in sufficient microbiological conditions using disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recycled by the world's hydrologic cycle, but the stress of accessing it is caused by inequalities in space and time, financial needs from agriculture and industry, and overcrowding. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established a Millennium Development Goal for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe and clean water. Progress towards that goal is uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water and poor sanitation are deadly; some five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater remains untreated in local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with approximately a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water annually than is recovered from their natural water resources. These diseases not only affect surface water such as rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater. People use
Farming
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigation, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all human water use. In the United States, 42% of the water extracted for use is used for irrigation, but most of the water "used" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developing countries that have developed sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying, and delivering water, and removing waste water. But the growth of the economy, population, and climate crisis have caused more concern about water problems, causing more competition for sustainable water supplies, leading to the idea of ​​superior water. As the population and economy increase, consumption of meat thirst expands, and new demand increases for biofuels or fresh water industry, competition for fresh water will exist. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. He assessed the current availability of water for agriculture around the world and identified areas suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. An additional 1.6 billion people live in water-scarce areas, where lack of water resources or lack of human capacity make authorities unable to meet water needs. The report found that it will be possible to produce enough food in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and the environment will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid the global water crisis, farmers must strive to be more efficient to meet the growing food needs, while businesses and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of large quantities of water. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—equivalent to a pair of pants—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is used in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has occurred: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. According to the research model
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France to equal "the weight of the volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a 'meter', and of the temperature of melting ice. However, in order to make it clear, there must be a metal standard used, a thousand times more, the kilogram. Therefore, work was commissioned to determine the exact size of one liter of water. Even that the definition of the gram of water at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - the temperature is very cold - the scientists chose to fix the new model and make their measurement at the highest temperature of water, which was measured at the time as 4 ° C (39 ° F). °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is the same as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined as the temperature (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, tab There is also a small amount of isotopes heavier than oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes, but it also affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have heavier isotopes than the water standard. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although humans contain anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact price depends on the level of operation, temperature, humidity, etc. Most of this is consumed through food or beverages other than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors consuming less, usually 1 liter of water for an average man, not including additional needs due to water loss from exercise or hot weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. People like to say that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking more water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, is associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent constipation. One of the first recommendations for drinking water in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "A common standard for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of these things are found in prepared foods." The latest dietary intake data from the US National Research Council generally agree, according to the average of all water intake from US research data (including food): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal, without total water) for women 1%). In particular, pregnant and breastfeeding women need more fluids to stay hydrated. The American College of Medicine recommends that, on average, men drink 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should get 3 liters (12 cups), because more fluids are lost during aging. It is also noted that normally, about 20% of water is obtained from food, while the rest is from water and beverages (caffeinated). Water leaves the body in many forms; from urine and feces, from sweat, and exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical activity and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily water needs may increase. People want water with few impurities. Most impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solvents are acceptable and even necessary for better processing and providing the required electrolytes. One of the largest (by volume) fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Drug use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a heavy solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, including other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds close to water. In organic reactions, it is not often used as a strong reaction, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and simple) and nucleophilic. However, these things are sometimes needed. In addition, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction by water has been observed. Supercritical fluid has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water combusts organic pollutants effectively. Heat exchange
Water and water are fluids that are used for heat exchange, because it has and has the ability to heat up, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can also be available from a lake or ocean. It is especially used to transport heat from the vaporization and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as iron and copper are oxidized faster by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat into water or carried out by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, air-conditioning plants are the largest users of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron mediator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the medium. This provides some kind of safety measure, because removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods have been approved to stop the reaction and it is better to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure sufficient cooling. Thinking about fire
Water has a heat of vaporization and is negative, which makes it a good fire extinguisher. The evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires that contain oil and organic solvents because many organic materials float in water and the water tends to become acidic. The use of water in firefighting must take into account the danger of explosion, which may occur when hot water is used in closed spaces, and of hydrogen explosion, when things that interact with water, such as some metals or carbon dioxide such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, becoming water. The power of the explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this incident was not from the fire but from the reactor's own cooling water. An electrical explosion occurs when the overheating of the core causes water to flow into the room. The explosion of hydrogen can be caused by the presence of gas and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate a lot of heat in water-based reactions that are flammable. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a product that is often transported in paper bags. If these get wet through, they can ignite as their contents come into contact with water. Fun
People use water for many recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of running water to be calming, and streams and other flowing water are popular objects. Some keep fish and other animals and pets in aquariums or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. People also use water for sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water at a temperature such as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater (including sewage treatment) to households and businesses. Water resources include wells, pipes for collecting rainwater, water connections, and water treatment plants, water reservoirs, pipes, water pipes, and old water pipes. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is usually collected from rivers, extracted from artificial sources (wells) in the ground, or used from lakes and rivers. Building a lot of water wells in sufficient places is the way to produce a lot of water, assuming that the rivers can provide enough water. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water will need to be filtered for human consumption. This will involve removing harmful substances, toxins and harmful bacteria. The popular process is filtering with sand which only removes impurities, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation does all our work. There are many advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water supply, shipping or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the poor at no cost. Reducing consumption by using potable water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for irrigation in the city to conserve fresh water. Wastewater can be the largest source of water use; to the extent that pollution prevents others from using the water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits to the pollution. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter the accounting model of business costs, conceived as a product that cannot be counted. So other people pay the cost of the polluted water, while the private company's profits are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in waterways and can be harmful to aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated at wastewater treatment plants. The reduction of surface water pollution is addressed by various prevention and treatment measures. Business applications
Many industrial processes rely on chemicals dissolved in water, to remove solids in water slurries or to use water to dissolve and extract products, or to clean products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling of power plants use a lot of water, require sufficient water, and often cause serious water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually, the dam is built by the river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing out of the lake is forced by turbines that turn the generator. Cold water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in air conditioners to prevent overheating, or to prevent the blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat pumps, in addition to its use as a solvent. Untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollutants include exhaust (specifically pollutant) and cooling water (thermal pollutant). The industry needs pure water for many applications and uses different types of purification both in water and discharge. The digital economy, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so AI expansion can "harm the world and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays an important role in food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar present in water affect the body of water. The temperature and cold content of water is affected by the solvent, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with a lower temperature that occurs at a higher temperature. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved solids decreases the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemicals and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in low water activity - this is important to know because most bacteria grow continuously at low water activity. Not only microbial growth affects the safety of food, but also storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also important in food processing and may be changed or corrected by using an ion exchange system. It can affect the quality of the product, as well as the role of cleanliness. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint Association in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10 ^ 3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10 ^ 3 US gal) of water; However, the authors also clarify that this is the global average and the circumstances determine the amount of water used in beef. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the world
Most of the coastline is formed by star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by strong external winds of gas and dust. When the release of this material eventually affects the surrounding air, the shocks create compression and heat the air. Water is found quickly in these hot gases. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the world's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the scientists, "the research shows that water has been prevalent on Earth for nearly its lifetime". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water may exist in abundance in other galaxies, too, because its product, hydrogen, and oxygen, is one of the most important elements in the universe. According to the structure of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and of other star systems, most other planetary systems will have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water contains vapor in:

Atmosphere of the sun: in detectable equation
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and large water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the total atmosphere, usually 1-4% of the surface
Atmosphere of the moon: in trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Atmosphere of Jupiter: 0.0004% - in ice only; and its moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn - in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (under ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in line at the bottom of 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - seen in deep layers
Extrasolar planets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Star cloud: not limited to cold stars and even found in hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: include more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279 + 5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally found in small parts of Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in the Saturnian moon of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer thick ocean approximately 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid ocean. Liquid water is also present on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a sandwiched layer of ice and rock. Ice
Water includes ice for:

 Mars: in the regolith and at the poles. The Earth-Moon system: mostly ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reports the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper in the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the Earth's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And also available at:

Mercury's pole
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles may be abundant in the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the outer layers will be ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still is superionic water where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the gas lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to life on Earth as we know it. Earth in the living area of ​​the Solar System; if it is closer or farther from the sun (about 5%, or about 8 million miles), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist simultaneously will be rare. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold air, including moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a negative temperature (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain the temperature of the environment when there is a constant. The state of water on the planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If the planet is large enough, the water on it will be strong despite the temperature, because the pressure is caused by gravity, as it was seen on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and violence
Water rights are rights related to water and water. Water, especially fresh water, is a common resource around the world and is an important factor in many conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the years in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers have predicted that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will experience poor water quality. A report, released in November 2009, indicates that by 2030, in some developed areas of the world, the need for water will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water since 1990. The proportion of people living in developing countries with safe water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 that water is accessible to all people in the United Nations. affected by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve the effectiveness of the delivery of aid, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Services, are not taken by donors in water as well as they are in education and health, potentially causing many donors to overlap and government recipients without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cite poor management as one of the reasons for some types of water shortages. Water management is the formal and informal process through which water management decisions are made. Water quality management is the key to knowing the best working methods in terms of physical and health. Sometimes mistakes are made by trying to use the 'blueprints' that work in the world design to create the world's parts and content. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that effective and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's maritime law is more complicated than it should be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from a simple water-related disease, which is often linked to a lack of clean water. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water management policies. The 2023 report stated that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to sanitation. Urban residents (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages are described as poverty, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, in the last 40 years, water consumption has increased by 1% per year, and is expected to grow at a constant rate until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have quadrupled, while floods in the northern mid-latitudes have increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations related to water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute works with the goal of using water management to reduce poverty. The conventions on water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Ocean Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since 1990, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without water shortage, 4 billion people a month drown, and the decline in a month. $307 billion a year. He called for laws that match reality rather than past standards. In culture
Faith
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The thirst (or stress or anxiety) of someone in water is a sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); It is also part of the rituals of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed usually after washing some part of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to wash a person or an area (for example, in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been made holy by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of people, places, and things, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Thoughts
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it one of the ylem, or essential elements of the universe. Thales, who Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and an engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, comes out of water. Thales, a believer, further believed that everything is made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the earth's cube. The theory of the four body humors associated with water phlegm, as cold and moist. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some cultures and Asian cultures use water as a symbol. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The best is like (that of) water. The best of water appears in all its benefits, and in its work, without effort (to the contrary), the low place that all men dislike. Hence (its way) is close to (that of) Tao" and "There is nothing in this world that is soft and weak." than water, and also for fighting things that are stable and strong there is nothing that can be better than it - because there is nothing (like) that it can change." attributing natural qualities of the people of different regions Suav to the character of local water resources
"Underwater" features in Germanic and Slavic mythology as bringing the dead back to life. Remember the Grimm fairy-tale ("Water of life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the concept of magical water that prevents aging. Art and activism
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" uses the lecture of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, this song is not a "monotonous string of facts", but, its words, like their content, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and disperse, until they are in the calm quiescence of the conclusion 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, the moon in the stagnant" the best verses in Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, complete "the impossibility of writing poetry all the conflicting information written in the textbooks." The notes on the water represent the new meaning of "forever, changing life," and the song represents the importance of the motif in the novel. Below is the song that says it all. What in the water did Bloom, the lover of water, the drawer of water, the person who brings water back to the lot, admired? Its universality: its freedom is equal and eternal to itself in finding its own level: it is huge in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed profundity in the Sundam trench of the Pacific, 0shom wave 0. The content to see in turn all the content of its seaboard: independence of its units: variability of the state of the ocean: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its decline after destruction: its barrenness in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and dry sign. The Earth: its indisputable hegemony continues in the square ball throughout all regions below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous beds: it can melt and hold in solution for all soluble substances including millions of tons of precious metals: it slows erosions of all the coasts. and volume and density: its imperturbability in the lagoons and highland tarns: its gradation of color in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular ramifications in the continental lakecontained streams and confluent oceanflowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents, the northern coast gulfe: Groundwater, underground wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its great circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its security, safety and security. The hygrometric device and sampling from the well from the hole in the wall of Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen with part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the water of the dead sea penetrative, its persistent. The water flows out of the boat: its properties for washing, quenching thirst and fire, food: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapor, fog, rain, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its power in tight hydrants: its variety of information in business and trade and commerce. and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanchmills, canals: navigable, floating and graving docks: it can be derivable by harnessed tides or watercourses falling down from one level to another: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) numbers, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: its place in the body of 90% of its human benefits. lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and artist Fredericka Foster restored The Price of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, who built a year ago the Cathedral of our dependence on water. The largest exhibition to ever take place in the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, such as Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Thinking About Water, a collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the organization WaterAid commissioned ten artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a common but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of tricks and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fictional story concerns the safety of the product. Song
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida based rappers as a type of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Write a letter
Information
Some work said
Read more
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water Science School (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategic, operational and corporate publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water samples and research Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the world", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special publication)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Makes Us, 2020 PBS documentary