Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. As a polar molecule, water undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, even though it does not provide food energy or organic micronutrients. Due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide distribution and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of floating water and ice droplets, and are solid. In the case of fine distribution, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. About 71% of the Earth's surface is covered by water, and seas and oceans account for the largest part of the water volume (about 96.5%). A small amount of water occurs as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water is constantly moving through evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff and usually reaches the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans is used in agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been the main source of food in many parts of the world and continue to provide 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for many substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes as well as in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are central to many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, sailing, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-wed-European, su *wod-fix form ('water'; 'wet'). It is also related through the Indo-European root to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless, with a slight blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because it can dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it dissolves non-polar substances poorly. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": naturally occurring water almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to produce chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. states
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, which is water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so in a liquid state. In addition, it is unusual because it thickens significantly less during freezing, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (gets smaller) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C, the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create enormous pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior: it contracts and becomes denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, which floats on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic life in the lakes would die during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, you can achieve a significant interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into steam as a result of evaporation on its surface (evaporation in a liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes are deposited on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. During freeze drying, the food is frozen and then stored under low pressure, so the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting point and boiling point depend on pressure. The Clausius–Clapeyron relation gives a good approximation of the rate of change of the melting temperature due to pressure:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases during melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting point is lowered. In glaciers, melting under pressure can occur under a sufficiently thick layer of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the density of the vapor phase is much lower than that of the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures deep in the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. Temperatures in hydrothermal vents can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time should be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. In contrast, with a pressure cooker, the cooking time can be reduced by increasing the temperature of the source. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
The pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) has curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); this is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. Progressively compressible or expandable between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in many applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. It acts as a solvent in the Earth's mantle during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another form of ice with cubic crystal symmetry, Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms different crystal structures. Twenty cases have been experimentally confirmed by 2024, and more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a water droplet was hit by a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a rigid structure of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms could freely flow. When sandwiched between the graphene layers, the ice forms a square grid. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that detect the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs can smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances, which can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Clear water is apparently blue due to light absorption in the region c. 600-800 sqm. The color can be easily observed in tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool, when the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used for aqueous solutions, since the higher intensity of the lower overtones in water allows the use of short-path glass cuvettes. Observing the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) requires a path length of about 25 μm. Also, the cuvette should be transparent and insoluble in water around 3500 cm-1; Calcium fluoride is one of the materials often used for aqueous solution cuvette windows. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64–11). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In the water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners contain lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom is partially negatively charged, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter of which gives fizz in carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other life-critical phenomena (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they are insoluble in water. Many inorganic materials are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a liquid or solid water molecule can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond of 492 kJ/mol). An estimated 90% of this is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to water moving up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this feature. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with solvation of the resulting hydrogen and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic substances such as table salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen when an electric current is passed through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires a higher energy input than the heat released during the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water is for most purposes considered incompressible: its compressibility under normal conditions is between 4.4 and 5.1 × 10–10 Pa−1. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10–3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters/s (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (roughly 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metals more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of coal, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water on Earth. Hydrography is the study of the distribution of water. Hydrogeology is the study of the distribution and movement of groundwater, glaciology is the study of glaciers, limnology is the study of inland waters, and oceanography is the study of the distribution of oceans. The ecological processes associated with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The combined mass of water on, below and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate amount of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or puddles. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also occurs as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fracture patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent ice, is responsible for the large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms a variety of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water constantly moves through these areas in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air, and the release of land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or the ocean. from the land it usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns there, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as outflow to the sea, 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contributes 72 Tt per year. The annual 119 Tt of precipitation over the land has several forms: most often rain, snow and hail, some fog and dew also contribute. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high-density water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning, when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise, and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensation in the air can also refract sunlight and create a rainbow. Runoff often collects in catchments that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat terrain for the development of population centers. A flood occurs when a generally low-lying area is covered by water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm hits. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water supply. This occurs when a region constantly receives below-average precipitation either due to its topography or its latitudinal location. Water supplies
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, such as as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs both as a 'stock' and as a 'flow'. Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and as ice and snow. 69 percent of the total global freshwater is stored in glaciers and permanent snowpack; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The storage time of water varies greatly: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. A significant proportion of the water supply in some regions is extracted from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawal exceeds supply, reserves decline. According to some estimates, 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
On average, seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and increases in density as the temperature decreases to freezing, rather than reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The water salinity in the larger seas ranges from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity of 30 to 40%, is indeed a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides that occur in a given place are the changes in the position of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, as well as the effect of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The intertidal zone, the coastal strip that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, is an important ecological product of the ocean's tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital, on the one hand, as a solvent in which many of the body's dissolved substances are dissolved, and on the other hand, it is an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. During anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via enzymatic chemical reactions that require energy) to grow larger molecules (such as starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). During catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (such as glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids, which are used as fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate hydrogen from oxygen in water. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy, transforming water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water also plays a central role in acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e. proton) donor can be neutralized with a base, a proton acceptor, for example hydroxide ion (OH-), so that water is produced. Water can be considered neutral, and in an ideal state, its pH (the negative logarithmic value of the hydrogen ion concentration) is 7. The pH value of acids is less than 7, while that of bases is greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of their lives on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of certain underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must occasionally surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show many modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see siphons in insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in an aquatic habitat, most of them have little or no specialization in aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was spread between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and still is a major factor in human development. Health and environmental pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking, but not harmful to humans for swimming or bathing, is known by other names other than potable water and potable water, and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 ppm drinking water and 1-2 ppm unreacted chlorine in bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants, such as chlorine or ozone, or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting waste water (most often wastewater, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water each year. Every year, 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cubic meters) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource that circulates through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access arise from uneven spatial and temporal distribution in nature, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and growing populations. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve the proportion of people without access to safe water and sanitation worldwide by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals, which call for universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of municipal wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, home to roughly a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate to severe water scarcity, and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is replenished through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades underground water resources. Human uses
Agriculture
Humanity's most significant use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80-90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is used for irrigation, but the vast majority of "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) water goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying and transporting water and removing sewage. However, increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing water concerns, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries grow, new water challenges are expected. In 2007, the International Water Management Institute of Sri Lanka assessed water management in agriculture to see if there is enough water in the world to feed a growing population. It assessed the amount of water currently available for agriculture on a global scale and mapped places with water shortages. It turns out that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion people, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically water-scarce areas, where a lack of water investment or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for the authorities to meet their water needs. The report found that it is possible to produce the necessary food in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends is leading to a crisis in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities must find ways to use water more efficiently. The water shortage is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton – equivalent to a pair of jeans – is needed to produce 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has occurred: for example, the disappearance of the Aral Sea is largely due to the fact that the former Soviet Union diverted water from the Amu-Darya and Syr-Darya rivers for cotton production. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as "the absolute weight of pure water equal to the volume of a cube of one hundred meters at the temperature of melting ice." However, for practical reasons, a metallic reference standard with a mass a thousand times greater, the kilogram, was needed. Therefore, they were commissioned to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Even though the gram definition defined water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—the scientists decided to redefine the standard and made their measurements at the temperature of the highest water density, which was then measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, which is exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale, on the same scale as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined based on the boiling point (100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water mainly consists of hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16 isotopes, but smaller amounts of heavier oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) isotopes are also found. The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes usually contains less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined by the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
On average, the human body contains 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 gallons) of water per day for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this comes in with food or drink, except for clean water. The medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that excess water consumption, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with meals, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original 1945 recommendation for water consumption by the Food and Nutrition Board of the United States National Research Council read: "The usual standard for different persons is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The US National Research Council's most recent Dietary Reference Intake Report, based on the median pooled water intake from US survey data (including food sources) in general, is 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, 9% of total water. inclusion in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should increase their intake to 3 liters (12 cups), as they lose particularly large amounts of fluid during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that in general, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in several forms; with urine and faeces, perspiration and the exhalation of water vapor in the air. As a result of physical stress and heat stress, water loss increases, and the daily fluid requirement may also increase. People need water with little contamination. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest (by volume) fresh water source suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent, and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve reagents well, it is amphoteric (acidic and alkaline) and nucleophilic. However, these features are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic impurities. Heat exchange
Water and steam are commonly used media for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity for both cooling and heating. Cold water can even be obtained naturally from a lake or the sea. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. The downside is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly when exposed to untreated water and steam. Almost all thermal power plants use water as a working medium (in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a coolant (used to exchange waste heat into a body of water or evaporate it in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This is a sort of passive safety measure, since removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping the reaction are preferred and it is preferable to cover the core with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire protection aspects
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because a lot of organic material floats on the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also consider the danger of vapor explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in a confined space, and hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot coal such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, break down water and produce water gas. The power of such explosions was also seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water involved did not come from firefighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the core's extreme overheating caused the water to vaporize. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction of steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance often shipped in paper bags. If these get wet, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. Relaxation
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as exercise and sports. These include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places to relax and unwind. Many people find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some people keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and socializing. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature, either in the form of ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) for households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater cisterns, water supply networks and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old water pipes. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right places is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through communal water systems, by tank transport or as bottled water. Many countries' governments have programs that distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce use by using drinking water (potable water) exclusively for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water supplies. Water pollution may be the greatest abuse of water; if a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it is not included in the standard accounting of market costs, as it is considered an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, others pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of the pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Contaminated surface runoff is mitigated by a number of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous suspension, or using water to dissolve and extract materials, or wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require separate water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in energy production. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydropower is produced by driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built on a river and an artificial lake is created behind it. The water coming out of the lake flows through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used for water blasts and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used to cool machinery to prevent overheating or overheating of saw blades. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various purification techniques for both water supply and drainage. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the spread of artificial intelligence "could threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and steaming are popular cooking methods that often involve immersing food in water or its gaseous state or steam. Water is also used for washing. Water also plays a number of critical roles in the field of food science. Dissolved substances in water, such as salts and sugars, affect the physical properties of water. The boiling point and freezing point of water are affected by solutes and air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with lower air pressure, which occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacteria stop growing at low water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food durability and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated with a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality as well as play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is considered soft if it is less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that environmental factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is included in the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water forms rapidly in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor "containing 140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most common elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most planetary systems are likely to have similar components. Water vapor
Water is present in vapor form:

The Sun's atmosphere: detectable traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the total atmosphere, typically 1-4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and Europa's moon
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - traces below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Atmospheres of stars: not limited to cooler stars, and can even be detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Cirumstellar discs: including discs of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on Saturn's moons Enceladus as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and on Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present in the form of ice:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as an ice sheet on Earth and in craters and volcanic rocks on the Moon NASA reports that NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper detected water molecules on the Indian Space Agency's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it's probably also present on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles are likely to make up most of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water, in which the molecules break up into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, or, deeper down, in the form of superionic water, in which the oxygen is crystallized but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Habitability of water and planets
Liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms on Earth, are vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), then the conditions that would allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including the moisture in the air. Smaller planets, such as Mars, have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively uniform surface temperature in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource throughout the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. According to a report published in November 2009, by 2030 the demand for water in some developing regions of the world will exceed the supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources since 1990. According to calculations, the proportion of the population with access to safe water in developing countries increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by water donors as effectively as they have been in education and health, so it is possible that multiple donors are working on overlapping projects and recipient governments lack the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cited poor governance as one of the causes of some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management primarily means knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic environment. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply developed world “blueprints” to developing world sites and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; an International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water supplies found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law is far more complex than it needs to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003, the UN Water Development Report prepared by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Program has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. According to the 2023 report, two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been classified as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water scarcity. Nevertheless, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, the number of floods in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations working on water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects that aim to use efficient water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22, and World Oceans Day is celebrated on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water failure" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-scarce countries, and 4 billion people experience at least one month of water shortage every year. $307 billion per year. He demanded a policy that corresponded to reality rather than to the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleansing agent in most religions. Faiths that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or pouring) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Also, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, there is a ritual bathing of the dead in pure water. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Taymmum). In Shinto, almost all rituals use water to purify a person or an area (e.g. in the ritual of the misogynist). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for baptism, to bless persons, places and objects, or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and one of the elements, or raw materials, of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, denser than water, rose from the water. Thales, the monist, continued to believe that everything is made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm because it is cold and moist. The classical element of water was one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems use water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like water. The excellence of water is manifested in the fact that it benefits everything, and that it occupies - without striving (to the contrary) - the low place that all people dislike. Therefore (his path) is close to the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, but for attacking solid and strong things there is nothing that can take precedence with it - because there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." Guanzi is the symbol of water in "Shui di" 水地, and the symbol of water further elaborates the natural characteristics of the people of different regions of China to the nature of local water resources.
In Germanic and Slavic folk tales, "living water" is a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the dichotomy of living and dead water in Russia. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish author James Joyce's seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the "Ithaca" chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "garland of monotonous facts", but its phrases, like their subject matter: "ebb and flow, swell and swell, gather and break, until the concluding "dead marshes, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon" subside. According to literary critic Hugh Kenner, it achieves "the improbable feat of elevating school poetry to poetry the literary motif of water represents the theme of "eternal, ever-changing life" in the novel, and the hymn is the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in its entirety. What did Bloom, the water worshiper, the water collector, the water carrier returning to the province, admire in the water? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy with nature in its search for its own level: its immensity in the ocean of the Mercator projection: its depth without aqueducts in the Sundam Trench, exceeding the tranquility of the Pac oceans and the surface particles visit each point of its shore in turn: the independence of its units: the variability of sea states: its hydrostatic calm in calm: its hydrokinetic turbidity in ebb and spring tides: subsidence in after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice caps, arctic and antarctic: climatic and commercial importance of land1 Globe: its undisputed hegemony, extending in square leagues to the entire region below the subequatorial Tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primordial basin: its yellow bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including the most precious metals tons of volume and density: its undisturbedness in lagoons and mountain rocks: its gradation of colors in gloomy, temperate and cold zones: its vehicular branches in streams surrounded by continental lakes and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and violent marine currents: in gulfs, equatorial currents: in southern watercourses: gargoyles, artesian wells, eruptions, streams, eddies, streams, tides, swellings of the ground, basins, streams, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, torrents: its vast outline, its surface, the late horizontal flow of spring rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments, and the well of the hole in the wall of the Ashtown gate is an example, the saturation of the air, the distillation of the dew: its composition its simplicity, two components of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its ability to penetrate the water of Deztelen rivers inadequate dams, leaks on board ships: its cleansing, thirst-quenching and fire-extinguishing properties, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as a paradigm and model: its metamorphoses, such as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its power in rigid fire hydrants: its varied forms in mugs and in gusto lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, ice sheets: its obedience to working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleachers, canals, mills if navigable, floating and gravel docks: used from tides or water courses falling from level to level its derivative potential: the fauna and flora of a submarine (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, but the inhabitants of the globe: it is everywhere, like the 90% of the human body, in waterlessness, in waterlessness bogs, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster directed The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York, documenting the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever held at the cathedral, it featured over forty artists including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as an object or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the United Nations declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name was used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983 when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
"Water" has been used as a kind of catchphrase or adlib by many Florida rappers. Rappers include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have dedicated entire songs to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 Florida Water. See also
Comments
References
Referenced works
Further reading
External links

The world's water data page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
A portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and related publications
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe" Ideas, BBC, video, 3:16 min, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary