Water is a non-compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical. It is the main source of rivers, lakes, and oceans of the Earth. Water is also the liquid of all known living things, where it acts as a solvent. Water, a polar molecule, strongly bonds to intermolecular hydrogen which contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all life forms, although it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, universal size, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's temperature and pressure are so close to the third element of water, water on Earth exists as solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of water droplets and ice, its solid form. When finely divided, crystalline ice can melt in the form of ice. The gaseous state of water is water vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for most of the water (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water are in the form of groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as water vapor, clouds (which are ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and rain (0.001%). Water continues to move through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, until it reaches the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh waters is the main source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade of commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by boats across seas, rivers, lakes, and streams. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, snow, and ice are central to many sports and other forms of recreation, including swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, snowboarding, ice skating, and skiing. Etymology
From Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-wet' or). Associated, via Indo-European origin, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vavj. History
On Earth
Wealth
Water (H2O) is a polar compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is the most studied and sometimes described as "the universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it does not dissolve well in nonpolar substances. This is what makes it possible to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water as it exists in nature almost always includes various solvents, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only natural substance that exists as a solid, liquid, or gas at normal terrestrial conditions. State
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; which is the water phase of H2O. The two most common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase changes: melting (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). The thickness
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less salty when cooled within certain temperature ranges; it is the only one known to actually do so in water. Also, it's normal because it shrinks a lot when it dries, although it's not unique in that way. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (compresses less) to the freezing point, and its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressure, cracked pipes and cracked rocks. In the solid state, it shows the usual form of contract and becomes more solid as it cools. These extreme temperatures have a significant impact on life on earth. In a lake or ocean, the water freezes at 4 °C (39 °F) below, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the water. This ice keeps the water below, preventing it from drying out. Without this protection, most of the organisms in the ponds will die during the winter. In addition, this anomaly is an important part of the thermohaline flow that distributes heat throughout the world's oceans. Magnet
Water is diamagnetic. Although the connection is weak, with superconducting magnets it is possible to obtain a known connection. Level changes
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water solidifies (solid) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or condenses into steam at 100 °C (212 °F). However, below the boiling point, water can change to steam on its surface by evaporation (vaporization is known around boiling water). Sublimation and deposition on surfaces. For example, snow is deposited on cold surfaces when snowflakes form by depositing on top of an aerosol layer or ice nucleus. In freeze drying, the food is dried and kept at low pressure so that the ice sublimates on its surface. Melting point and boiling point are related to pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T said
            
            
              d
              Q
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T said
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\'right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v__{\text{L}}}
  
 a 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v__{\text{S}}}
  
 is the number of moles of liquid and solid phases, a 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L__{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most materials, volume increases during melting, so melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, ice can melt beneath the surface of the thick ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship is also related to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase is much lower than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in water at high temperatures in the deep sea or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In tropical climates, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the temperature decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at altitude takes longer than cooking at sea. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time should be increased by a fourth to obtain the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a thick, water will boil at room temperature. The third and most important points
In the temperature and pressure diagram (see figure), there are curves separating the solid from the vapor, the vapor from the liquid, and the liquid from the solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three parts are identical. The third point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the number three was used to describe the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/temperature gap ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is seen in a serious way. At high temperatures and pressures, water and steam form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can be compressed and expanded between different forms like gas and water; Its properties (which are very different from ambient water) are pleasant to the firm. For example, at the right pressures and temperatures it can only mix with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This has a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent and catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, melting and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, which forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. One with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can form the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other glass structures. By 2024, twenty have been confirmed and more are predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, is a type of ice in the middle of the face, superionic ice phase, when a drop of water is subjected to a shock wave that raises the pressure of water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a form of solid oxygen atoms where hydrogen forces flow freely. When sandwiched between graphene layers, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical composition of the water are not known; Some theories suggest that its normal behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Fresh water is usually described as sweet and odorless, although humans have special sensors that allow them to detect when water enters their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of solvents that give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess water's ability to withstand extremely salty or polluted water. Color and appearance
Blue appears because light penetrates the soil c. 600–800 nm. Color can easily be seen in a water-soluble glass placed on a plain white surface, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the resonances of the O-H stretching vibrations. Color intensity increases with depth in the water column, based on Beer's law. This is also used, for example, with a swimming pool when the light source is visible during the day from the white tiles of the pool. Naturally, the color can change from blue to green due to the presence of solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with liquid solutions as the lower surfaces of the liquid are stronger, which means that glass cuvettes with shorter path lengths can be used. To find the point of specific absorption of water or a liquid in the ground about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a distance of about 25 μm is needed. In addition, the cuvette must be clear at about 3500 cm−1 and cannot be dissolved in water; Calcium fluoride is another commonly used material for cuvette windows with various liquids. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be detected with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. The sun does not reach areas of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) of depth. The refractive index of water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass forms (1.6). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of water. molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At both ends, there are valence electron pairs that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone groups is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen bonds. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Others have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom is more efficient when transferring hydrogen bonds. Along with the bent shape, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugar and simple acids such as ethanol. Water dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the pizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living things, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interaction between water and parts of these biomacromolecules is influencing protein binding, DNA synthesis, and other things that are important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic compounds (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic compounds are insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Depending on its polarity, a molecule of water in liquid or solid state can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also described its highest specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in changing the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the sea and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bond of water is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O–H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is related to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is a covalent component. These solids cause high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the movement of water up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Private education
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with the dissolution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrolysis and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic substances such as common salt. Water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Water can be considered impermeable for many reasons: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 in normal conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water has a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a value used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental detection (sonar). Confusion
Metals that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, surface water is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are included in the concept of ecohydrology. The amount of water found above, below, and above the earth's surface is called the hydrosphere. The total amount of water in the world (volume of water in the world) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, creek, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water in the atmosphere exists in solid, liquid, and vapor forms. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is an important element in global processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this ground water affects the types of faults. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is an important chemical and physical element. Water, and to a lesser but greater extent, ice, is responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. The deposition of the transported sediment is a type of sedimentary rock, which is recorded in the Earth's history. Water circle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the constant exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water is constantly moving through each phase in the water cycle based on the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other water bodies into the atmosphere and movement from plants and animals into the atmosphere. rain, from water vapor that evaporates from the sky and falls to the earth or the ocean. traveling from land to sea. Much of the water vapor returns to the oceans, but the wind transports water vapor over land as much as it flows into the ocean, about 47 Tt per year and evaporation and evaporation over land account for an additional 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, 119 Tt per year over the land, is of various types: rain, snow, and hail, with contributions from fog and snow. Snow is small droplets of water that freeze when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Snow forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth starts to rise. Water trapped in the atmosphere can refract the sun to create rainbows. Water often collects on top of streams that flow into rivers. Through erosion, floodwaters shape the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide fertile soil and solid ground for the construction of population centers. A flood occurs when a part of the country, in a low-lying area, is covered with water that comes out when the river overflows its banks or when there is a storm. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a country experiences a shortage of its water supply. This happens when it receives below average rainfall due to its topography or due to its location in relation to latitude. Wealth
Water sources are natural sources of water for human use, for example a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water is treated as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, as well as snow and ice. Of the world's fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, air, and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage varies: some aquifers contain water that has been stored for thousands of years, but the size of the reservoirs can change seasonally, decreasing in the dry season and increasing in the wet season. Most of the water supply for some countries is water extracted from water stored in reservoirs, and if the withdrawal exceeds the recharge, the reservoirs will decrease. According to some estimates, more than 30 percent of the amount of water used for irrigation comes from the non-recovery of groundwater, depleting groundwater. Water and sea
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, with little else. The physical properties of seawater differ from that of fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at a low temperature (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature until the freezing point, where it reaches a maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the main seas ranges from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity level of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local water levels due to the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the ocean. Tides change the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents called tidal streams. The changes in tides that occur in a place are the result of changes in the position of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. A coastline that is confined to high tides and exposed to low tides, the Mediterranean Sea, is a major ecosystem product of the sea. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many different properties that are important for the expansion of life. It takes this responsibility by allowing organic compounds to form in ways that can be recycled. All known forms of life exist in water. Water is important as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an important part of metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel storage and information). In catabolism, water is used to break down solids to produce smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used for fuel for energy use or other things). Without water, these metabolic processes cannot occur. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (taken from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living things use these fuels and transfer hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and fix water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. The acid, the hydrogen ion (H+, that is, the proton), can be separated by the base, which accepts a proton such as the hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal condition. pH values are less than 7 and values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The waters of the earth are full of life. The first living things were found in water; Almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as fish and whales. Some animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis of certain ecosystems. Plankton are the base of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have a tail before their lungs, although some fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine animals, such as fish, whales, otters, and seals, must surface every so often to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a variety of adaptations to survive in stagnant waters with breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, when invertebrate life develops in an aquatic habitat, there is little or no special need for water respiration. Effects on human life
Culture developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called regions of the tribe, lies between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptian society was very dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley culture (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) flourished along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber River. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their flexibility through water and the expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have developed for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Alcohol-free water can be made drinkable through filtration or distillation, or through other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for bathing and bathing, is called by various names other than potable or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to treat water for bathing or drinking. It is widely used and monitored by national regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of uncontaminated chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be kept in good microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (more commonly, called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of urban wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Clean water is a new resource, restored by the natural hydrologic cycle, but the pressure on access is due to uneven distribution in space and time, growing resource demands by agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for the distribution of water by 2015 to the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress toward that goal has been inconsistent, and in 2015 the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goals for global access to safe water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year due to water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million children from dying from diarrhea every year. In developing countries, 90% of all urban wastewater is not treated in rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these watersheds use more water each year than can be replenished through their natural reservoirs. Stress not only affects freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Human use of water for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of fresh water is reclaimed for use in irrigation, but most of the "waste" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often overlooked, especially in developed countries that have built simple water systems for collecting, treating, and transporting water, and removing wastewater. But economic growth, demographics, and land use increase concerns about water problems, leading to competition for fixed water sources, raising the prospect of high water levels. As population and industries continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increase, new water problems may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if there is enough water in the world to provide food for its growth. He assessed the current availability of water for agriculture at the global level and focused on areas suffering from water scarcity. It is known that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing water scarcity, where authorities are unable to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the desired food in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental conditions will lead to problems in many parts of the world. In order to prevent the world's water crisis, farmers will strive to increase production to meet the growing demands for food, while companies and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is wasted in areas that are at risk of water scarcity. Environmental damage has been widespread: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was a major cause of the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a quantity of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a metre, and at the temperature of melting ice". For proper operation, however, a metallic reference standard, one thousandth larger, is required. So the work was ordered to accurately determine the volume of one liter of water. Although the definition of the gram is based on water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the highest water temperature, measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the third point of water, defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but in May 2019 it was based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same extension as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined as the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mostly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it always affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes has fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, mean ocean water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people are between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is absorbed through food or other beverages rather than drinking water directly. Medical literature recommends a moderate intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, with no other requirements due to dehydration from exercise or heat. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" has no real basis in science. Studies have shown that increasing water intake, especially 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during a meal, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. The first recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council was as follows: "A normal amount for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The most recent dietary intake report by the US National Research Council is highly recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including dietary sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal; 0.71 US gal) for men, not available to water the amount of water supplied) the amount of water in the inspection. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need plenty of fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should have 3 liters (12 cups), because a lot of water is lost during breastfeeding. It is also known that generally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is removed from the body in many ways; through urine and feces, by coughing, and by exhaling water vapor through breathing. With exercise and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily water needs will increase. People need water with less impurities. Common contaminants are metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and preferred for enhancing taste and providing necessary electrolytes. The most pure water (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Wash
Traveling
Chemical use
Water is used in chemical reactions mainly as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic solutions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and related compounds in water. In organic solvents, it is not always used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these values ​​are sometimes desirable. Also, Diels-Alder reactions are accelerated by water. Supercritical fluid is currently a topic of research. Oxygen-rich supercritical water effectively removes impurities. Heat transfer
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat transfer, due to its availability and high heat capacity, for cooling and heating. Cold water can be obtained naturally from the ocean or the sea. Heat transfer through vaporization and condensation of water is more efficient due to its high latent heat of vaporization. Unfortunately, metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are quickly removed by untreated water and steam. In the vicinity of thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in the closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and as a coolant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or carried by evaporation in a cooler). In the United States, it is the largest user of water-cooled generators. In the nuclear power industry, water can be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and moderator. This provides a passive safety feature, as removing water from the reactor slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are needed to stop a reaction and it is better to keep the nuclear core covered with water in order to ensure stopping. Fire thoughts
Water has a high boiling point and is inert, which makes it a good fire extinguisher. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. The use of water on fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because many organisms float on top of the water and the water spreads the fire. The use of water should take into account steam explosions, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when water is dissolved by substances mixed with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or graphite coke, to dissolve in water, to form water gas. The influence of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from the fire but from the reactor's own water cooling system. The steam exploded when the core overheated causing the water to evaporate into the steam. A hydrogen explosion can occur due to the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metals, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate heat in contact with water that can cause a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a widely produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these are installed, they may ignite when the contents react with water. Fun
People use water for many recreational activities, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of them are swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports are played, such as ice hockey and ice skating. Beaches, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy fun. Many people believe that flowing water has the sound and texture, and fountains and other water features are popular decorative items. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or fish ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. People use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water at a low temperature such as snow or crystallized into snow. Water industry
Water utilities provide drinking water and wastewater services (including water treatment) to homes and businesses. There are water wells, cisterns for collecting rainwater, water networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes and ancient aqueducts. Air conditioning equipment is under construction. Drinking water is often collected in wells, brought from underground aquifers (wells), or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right places is the way to increase water supply, assuming that the aquifers can provide a sufficient flow. Other sources of water are rainwater harvesting. Water must be purified for human consumption. This can include removing dissolved substances, solvents and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration which only removes undissolved substances, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation does three things. More techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of seawater is a more efficient use of rising sea levels. Distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, trucking or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to provide water to the poor for free. Reducing consumption by using only potable (potable) water for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets around the city to conserve clean water resources. Water pollution may be the misuse of water; to the extent that the polluter restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the polluter's benefits. As with other types of pollution, this is not included in the standard calculation of market costs, which are considered external factors that the market cannot measure. So others are paying the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not given back to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Chemicals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate or if they cannot be dissolved. Municipal and industrial wastewater is often treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reduction of skin leakage is managed through various preventive and maintenance measures. Technical applications
Many industrial processes rely on solutions using water-dissolved chemicals, suspending solids in aqueous slurries or using water to dissolve and dissolve materials, or to wash products or equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and dyeing power plants use a lot of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often causing significant water pollution. Water is used in miracles. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power is obtained from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually, a barrage is built over the river, working into the reservoir behind it. The water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines to turn the generators. Pressurized water is used in water jetting and water-jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is safe, and does not harm the environment. It is used in the cooling of machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent the overheating of the sensor blades. Water is also used in processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, using it as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes released solutes (chemical pollution) and released cooling water (thermal pollution). The industry needs clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment methods in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so AI expansion can "threaten global and regional water security". Food production
Boiling, steaming, and grilling are the most commonly preferred cooking methods that involve placing food in liquid or its gaseous form, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water plays many important roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars present in water affect the physical properties of water. Boiling and freezing points are affected by solutes, and air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water is saturated at low temperatures with low air pressure occurring at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); as increasing the number of dissolved solids lowers the freezing point of water. The solutes in the water also affect the water production in terms of chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in the food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. The solutes in the water are low in water activity—this is important to know because bacteria will stop growing at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Water hardness is important in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can greatly affect the quality of a product, and play a role in cleaning. Water hardness is determined by the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if the water has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of cattle needs 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also note that the global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in cattle production. Drug use
Water for injection is on the list of essential medicines of the World Health Organization. Distribution by nature
In the whole world
Most of the water in the universe is formed as a result of the formation of stars. The formation of stars is associated with a strong external wind of gas and dust. As a result of this flow of material into the surrounding gas, shock waves are created that compress and heat the gas. The water that appears in this hot gas is quickly released. On 22 July 2011, a report revealed the presence of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the oceans on Earth combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the information shows the amount of water in the universe for its entire life". Water has been found in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Other galaxies may have a lot of water, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant in the universe. Based on the patterns of formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems have similar properties. water vapor
Water exists as a vapor in:

The Sun's Atmosphere: In Visible Numbers
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and most of the water in Mercury's exosphere. Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface. The Weather of the Month: by number
Mars Atmosphere: 0.03%
The Sky of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only ice; and the moon of Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (submarine ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - less than 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – contains the deepest layers
Other planetary bodies: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar skies: not limited to cool stars and visible hot giants like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including elements of most T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. water
Water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is rarely found on Mars. Scientists believe that water exists on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface, mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface liquid ocean. Liquid water on Jupiter's moon Ganymede may exist as a layer trapped between high-altitude ice and rock. Ice water
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: as ice on Earth and in volcanoes and igneous rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: on Earth's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon system
Comets and Other Objects in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Clouds
And it may be in:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic species
Water and other solvents may be the majority of the inner structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deep layers is in the form of ionic water where the molecules are broken into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen, and deeper as superionic water where the oxygen dissolves, but the hydrogen ions just float in the oxygen lattice. Water and earth life
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is at the center of the Solar System; if it is a little closer or more from the Sun (about 5%, or 8 million kilometers), the conditions allow all three types to coexist at the same time. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air. Small planets like Mars are thin and have no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a thermal barrier (the greenhouse effect) that helps maintain surface temperatures when present in normal amounts. The state of water on Earth is at ambient pressure, which is determined by Earth's gravity. If the planet is large enough, water on it may be stable at high temperatures, due to the high pressure exerted by gravity, as seen in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics about water and water resources. Water, especially clean water, is a strategic resource around the world and a key factor in political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent years in almost every part of the world, but about one billion people do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water scarcity. A report, published in November 2009, showed that by the year 2030, in some developing areas of the world, water demand will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international efforts to improve the quality of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken by water sector donors such as the quality of education and health, which can leave many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cite poor management as a cause of some forms of water scarcity. Water management is the set of formal and informal processes that make decisions about water management. Water quality management is primarily about identifying the best practices in a physical and socioeconomic context. It has sometimes made the mistake of trying to use the 'blueprints' that work in the developing world to develop regional and global contexts. An example is the Mekong River; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that cost-benefit and environmental impact assessments are rarely done. They also found that Cambodia's water legislation is more complex than it needs to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from simple water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. According to the 2023 report, two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack adequate sanitation. People in cities (2.4 billion) will face less water in the year 2050. Water scarcity has been shown as a result, due to overuse and pollution. The report shows that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with water stress. However, in the last 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, the flow of water has increased in many countries, while the flow of water in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a rate of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute works on projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. The water related organizations are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Day for Water is observed on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In the year 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since 1990, 35% of the water lands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-deprived countries, 4 billion people experience no water. of the year. He called for policies to be more in line with reality than previous traditions. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleansing agent in most religions. Beliefs that involve ablution include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a major ceremony of Christianity (also called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, such as Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Also, bathing in pure water is done for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, it is possible to perform five daily prayers at most after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless there is no water available (see Tayamum). In Shinto, water is used in all purification activities to purify a person or a place (as in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is the water consecrated by the priest for baptism, to bless people, places, and things, and to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Personal
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four basic elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or element of the universe. Thales, who was introduced by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, believed that from the earth, there was more water than water. Thales, a monist, believed that everything was made from water. Plato believed that water is shaped like an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube world. The theory of the four humors includes water and phlegm, as well as cold and wetness. Water is usually one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing said, "The highest goodness is like water. The goodness of water is seen in its benefit to all, and in its remaining, without effort, in a low state which is not desirable to all men. Therefore, (its path) is close to the Tao" and "There is nothing on earth that is more fragile and weak than water, but to attack solid and strong things, nothing can start before it - because nothing can be changed." the people of different parts of China in terms of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a way to bring back the dead. See the Grimm fairy-tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of the water of life and the water of death. The Fountain of Youth represents an intimate concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and craft
In the important novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" is a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, it is not just a "monotonous string of facts", but its words, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the calm quiescence of the concluding 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon is considerable to the waning moon. Ithaca, and according to the author novelist Hugh Kenner, has accomplished "the improbable task of elevating the poem to all the clutter of information collected in school books." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal life," and the hymn represents the end of the poem It was said in full. What did Bloom appreciate, the water-puller, the water-carrier returning to the level? sea: the independence of its parts: the difference of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic calm in the calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in the neap and spring water: its decline after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial value: its preponderance of dry land. extending square leagues above all the places below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its first basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to melt and hold in solution the soluble elements with millions of tons of precious metals: its slow descent of the peninsulas and the low and massive degradation of its nature: high springs and tarns: its variation of colors in humid and hot and cold regions: its circulation in continental lakes in rivers and streams of the ocean with their rivers and transoceanic currents: rivers, North and South equatorial courses: its storms in earthquakes, fountains, water sources. new, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its size circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its hidden in springs, and hidden humidity, shown by the rhabdomantic or exemplmetric to the gate by the rhabdomantic or exemplmetric gate to the wall sealed by a rhabdomantic gate and exemplmetric the melting of air, the melting of ice: the ease of its production, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing properties: its healing of the waters of the Dead Sea: its constant access to streams, valleys, unfit waters, surface flows of the ship: it has no property for cleaning and extinguishing fire. paradigm and paragon: its forms such as steam, mist, cloud, rain, rain, snow, hail: its strength in frozen waters: its diversity in loughs and seas and valleys and gullies and guts and lakes and ships and sounds and fjords and minches and its moors and seas. icefloes: its convenience in the construction of hydraulic hydraulic wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its ability to be obtained from fixed currents or streams of water falling from level to level, not plants. indeed, those who live on earth: its ubiquity is like 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in the lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. The artist and artist Fredericka Foster took care of the wealth of water, in the church of St. The largest exhibition ever seen at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an ecosystem of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten artists to show how clean water affects people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the correct chemical name but rarely used for water. This name has been used in many ways to deceive and mock scientific ignorance. It all started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story includes safety concerns about the item. Music
The word "Water" has been used by Florida-based rappers as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who do this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Messages
References
Enumerated activities
Read more
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's projects, work and publications on water resources
American Finance Association 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water online
Water and Science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the worst things in the world", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary