Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical. It is mainly composed of streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living things, which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding that contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is necessary for all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or being organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its universal abundance, and its strong polarity in relation to its molecules, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure on Earth's surface are close to three times that of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and air in the form of fog. Clouds with water droplets and ice stopped, the situation is tough. When properly separated, ice crystals can appear in the form of snow. The atmospheric state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71 percent of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas making up the bulk of the water (about 96.5%). A small part of water occurs as groundwater (1.7%), and glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and air as vapor, clouds (containing ice and water suspended in the atmosphere), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continues to flow through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, rain, and precipitation, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water has been, and continues to be, a source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ship through oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in offices and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is used in industrial processes in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also the basis of many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, recreational boating, sailing, sailing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *root 'suffixedor'. Also, from Indo-European roots, in Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdor), while English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vavj. History
In the world
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a colorless and odorless, almost colorless liquid that appears blue. Hydrogen chalcogenide is the simplest, most studied chemical compound, and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more than any other liquid, even though it does not dissolve non-polar substances. This allows it to be "the solvent of life": in fact, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and a special process is required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only substance that can be seen as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal Earth conditions. State
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two common names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two most common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Addition or removal of heat can cause a change of phase: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and condensation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and shrinks as it cools to a certain temperature; it's the only natural thing that happens when it's wet. In addition, it is unusual because it is a little bit colder, although it is not unusual in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, whose density in water is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual tendency to contract and expand as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °C) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the surface of the liquid. This ice covers the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, many of the aquatic organisms that live in lakes will die in the winter. In addition, this negative trend is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat along the Earth's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the relationship is weak, with a large magnet it can achieve an outstanding relationship. System shift
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water melts (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point of water, water can change to vapor at its surface through evaporation (vaporization in liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on a cold surface where snowflakes form by depositing an aerosol or ice nucleus. In the freezing process, food is cooled and stored at low pressure so that the ice on the surface collapses. The melting and melting points depend on the pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature and pressure is given by Clausius-Clapeyron:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 is the volume of liquid and solid parts, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most materials, volume increases when melting occurs, so melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under the full ice sheet, creating underwater lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also affects the boiling point, but in the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid, so the boiling point increases in pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in deep oceans or underground. For example, temperatures exceeded 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As air pressure decreases with height, the surface temperature decreases by 1 °C per 274 meters. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the feed time must be four times to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by raising the cooking temperature. In the hole, the water will be at room temperature. Three things and something awesome
On the pressure/temperature time diagram (see figure), there are sections that separate solids from vapors, vapors from liquids, and liquids from solids. These meet at a point called the triple point, where the three systems can be unified. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure that liquid water can be. Until 2019, the three dots were used to describe the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/steam phase is limited to 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as critical point. At high temperatures and high pressures, the water and steam form a continuous process called high pressure water. It can be slowly collected or dispersed between solids such as gas and liquid; Its properties (very different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for the right pressure and temperature it can mix completely with non-polar compounds, including many organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as a poor solvent or catalyst for chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, diffusion and deposition. The process of ice and water
The type of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a process that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in high atmospheres. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystalline particles. By the year 2024, 20 experiments have been confirmed and many more are predicted to be theoretical. The 18th type of ice, ice XVIII, an ice segment centered on the face, was discovered when a slope of water was under a wave that caused the pressure of the water to reach millions of atmospheres and its temperature to several thousand degrees, causing a system of solid oxygen atoms and hydrogen atoms to flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unique behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Tongue and head
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special senses that can detect the presence of water in their mouths and are known to smell. However, water from natural sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that help them assess the strength of water to avoid salty or dirty water. Color and shape
Pure water is blue due to absorption of heat in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, during the day. One of the main absorption bands responsible for color is the resonance of the O-H stretching vibration. The intensity of the apparent color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to the pool when the sunlight reflects through the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the high energy of the low water volume means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths must be used. In order to observe the various types of water stretching or liquid in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be well at around 3500 cm-1 in weak water; Calcium fluoride is one of the most commonly used materials for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The fundamental Raman vibration can be observed using, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Water plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. In fact, no sunlight reaches the part of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) of depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and ordinary glass at 1.6 (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid. molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5 with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms near the two sides of the tetrahedron are centered on the oxygen atom. On the other hand, there are only pairs of valence electrons that do not share a bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms will form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the opposite pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atom has a positive charge. Along with the twisted structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and classifies it as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving most salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter gives the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many components of living things, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interaction between water and parts of these biomacromolecules shape protein folds, DNA base pairing, and other important factors in life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve water. Many rare elements are also volatile, including many metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, water molecules in the liquid or solid state can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting point and point of water is higher than that of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its very high energy (about 4.2 J / (g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J / g), heat of vaporization (2257 J / g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W / (m·K)). These properties make water more effective in changing the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the ocean and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to O-H covalent bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is the covalent component. These connections are responsible for surface turbulence and capillary forces. Capillary Action refers to the tendency of water to rise up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is based on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self Ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is a ratio of 2H2O ⇌ H3O + OH-, and the resulting solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dispersion of small ionic substances such as common salt. Water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity through it - a process called electrolysis. The calculator requires more energy input than the heat produced by the conversion process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Machine tools
Liquid can be considered impermeable for many purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10-10 Pa-1 in normal conditions. Even in the sea at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 ATM, water suffers only 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with low attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that cetaceans and humans exploit for communication in the environment (sonar). Reaction
Metallic whites that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides that release hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the world. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of groundwater is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological systems and hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The amount of water found above, below, and above the Earth's surface is called the hydrosphere. The amount of water on Earth (total water on Earth) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 cubic miles). Liquids are found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, lakes, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the air in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It is also like groundwater and aquifers. Water is important in many soil systems. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this ground water affects the process of faults. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth, water is important to climate and physical systems. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. Deposits of transported sediment form many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water system (known scientifically as the hydrologic system) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water flows continuously through the following areas and water systems with the following transfer systems:

evaporation from oceans and other water bodies into the atmosphere and conversion from land plants and animals into the atmosphere. rain, from water vapor from the air that falls to the ground or sea. water from the land usually flows into the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the sea is returned to it, but the wind transports water over the land at the same rate as water flows into the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurs on the land surface and provides another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, has different forms: regular rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is a small drop of water that forms when a large concentration of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when the temperature is low, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature of the earth begins to rise. Water that collects in the air can also block sunlight from forming rainbows. Floodwaters often accumulate across tributaries. Through erosion, water discharges shape the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for settlement. Flooding occurs when water covers an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, that occurs when rivers overflow their banks or heavy rains occur. On the other hand, a drought is a period of months or years when an area experiences a shortage of water. This happens when an area receives below average rainfall either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water appears as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total global freshwater, about 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, air, and biota. The duration of water storage and storage is very variable: some aquifers contain water that has been stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake can change during the season, decreasing in the dry season and increasing in the wet season. A large part of the water supply for some areas is water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when the discharge exceeds the supply, the stocks decrease. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of total water use comes from unsustainable groundwater abstraction, causing groundwater depletion. Water and tides
The tap water contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, and little else. The physical properties of river water differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The percentage of seawater varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of sea level caused by the tides of the moon and sun in the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of water in estuaries and create moving water known as currents. The variable water produced in one place is due to the changing position of the moon and the sun relative to the earth as well as the effect of the rotation of the earth on the local bath. The part of the coast that is immersed in high tide and exposed to low water, the intertidal zone, is an important part of the marine environment. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many different properties that are important for the growth of life. It does this by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows regeneration. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is very important and as a solvent for many of the body's dissolved solutes and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy-demanding enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel storage and information). In catabolism, water is used to break down bonds to produce smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that will be used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. In sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel to oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and change water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water also mediates acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton donor), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in a good situation. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a pH value greater than 7. Liquid life forms. The waters of the earth are teeming with life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, but there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater life. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in different ways. Fish have lungs rather than lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine animals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a variety of adaptations to survive in oxygen-poor water including breathing tubes (see bugs and mollusc siphon) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life originated in aquatic habitats, most of them have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Impact on human civilization
Development has historically developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called babies of civilization, is located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Big cities like Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong derive their success in part from their ease of access to water and the increase in trade. Islands with good ports, like Singapore, have grown for the same. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water is key to human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Weak water can be hardened by filtration or distillation, or by many other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking and does not harm people when swimming or bathing is called by various names other than drinking water or drinking water, and it is sometimes called safe water, or "good for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine and impurities for shower water). Water for bathing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of turning wastewater (commonly called sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, driven by natural hydrologic processes, but the pressure to access it comes from uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic needs from agriculture and industry, and a growing population. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to safe and clean water. Progress towards that goal has been uneventful, and in 2015 the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goal of achieving global access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water and poor sanitation are deadly; About five million people die every year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water can prevent diarrhea that kills 1.4 million children every year. In developing countries, 90% of municipal wastewater still does not make its way into rivers and streams. About 50 countries, which account for about a third of the world's population, have moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is supplied by the normal water cycle. This type affects not only surface water such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater. Used by people
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the majority of "consumable" water (used without returning to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed complex water systems to collect, clean, and transport water, and to remove waste water. But the economic crisis, population, and growing climate are increasingly concerned about water problems, leading to increased competition for clean water resources, leading to the concept of water scarcity. As the population and economy continue to grow, the consumption of marine animals expands, and the new demand rises for biofuels or new industrial irrigation, there may be a challenge to fresh water. A survey of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed current water availability for agriculture on a global scale and identified areas suffering from water scarcity. He found that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-scarce areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. More than 1.6 billion people live in water-scarce areas, where lack of money and water or lack of human rights prevent governments from meeting water needs. The report found that it will be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing today's food production and environmental conditions will cause chaos in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase production to meet the growing demand for food, while companies and communities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of hard water products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - which fits a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4 percent of the world's water use, water is consumed in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Great environmental damage has been done: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton has caused the destruction of the Aral Sea. According to scientific principles
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a mass of pure water equal to one cube of one hundred and one hundred meters, and at the melting temperature of ice". However, for practical purposes, a metal reference standard, one thousand times greater than the kilogram, is required. Therefore, the task was given to determine the exact amount of one liter of water. Although the definition of the gram's law specifically mentions water at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - a temperature that can be reproduced - scientists chose to modify the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the maximum density of water, which was measured at the time as 4 ° C (39 ° F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on triple water, defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with one degree Celsius increment, which was originally defined as the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mostly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes often contains heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water definition. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adults and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these come from food or drink other than drinking straight water. Medical literature recommends a low intake, which is usually 1 liter of water for a man, excluding other requirements due to dehydration from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink more water than necessary when they exercise, putting them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no basis in science. Studies have shown that adequate fluid intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, is associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent constipation. The first recommendations for drinking water in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the United States read: "The normal value for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of these are in prepared foods." The most recent National Food Research Council's recommended daily intake, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of adequate water for women, not about 9 percent. Specifically, pregnant and lactating women Breasts need more water to stay hydrated. The United States Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), since a lot of fluid is lost during nursing. It has also been found that in general, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (caffeinated included). Water is excreted from the body in various forms; from urine and feces, from sweat, and from breathing water and breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily water needs may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for growth promotion and supply of essential electrolytes. The largest body of water (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Use chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving most ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and water-related compounds. In organic reactions, it is not often used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. However, these things are sometimes very desirable. Furthermore, the enhancement of the Diels-Alder reaction by water has been observed. Critical water has been the subject of research recently. High oxygen-rich water effectively extinguishes pollutants. Light switch
Water and steam are the most commonly used water for heat exchange, because it has a high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water can be from a lake or ocean. It is particularly effective in transferring heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its high vaporization temperature. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are easily dissolved by untreated water and steam. In almost all power plants, water is used as working water (which is used to close the gap between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and coolant (which is used to exchange waste heat with water or carry it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, the cooling power industry is the largest user of water. In nuclear power plants, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This provides a safety factor, as removing water from the reactor slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are recommended for stopping the reaction and he chooses to cover the nuclear core with water to ensure it is cool. The idea of fire
Water has a high temperature of vaporization and is practically nonexistent, which makes it a good fire extinguisher. Water vapor transports heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use hot water that includes oil and organic solvents because many of the products that float on the water and disperse the hot water are flammable. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the risk of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used in hot fires in confined spaces, and of hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as some metals or hot carbon like coal, coal, or coke graphite, destroy water, producing water gas. Such explosive power was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water used in this case did not come from the fire but from the water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when the high temperature of the core causes water to turn into steam. Hydrogen explosions can occur as a result of the reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in water reactions that a fire can start. Instant alkaline earth oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a widely produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these materials are applied, they may ignite as their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, sailing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on the ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are places where people go to relax and have fun. Many people find the sound and appearance of flowing water to be soothing, fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorative items. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water to be at low temperatures as ice or crystals in snow. Water Company
Water companies provide domestic and industrial drinking water and waste water (including sewage treatment). Water supply includes wells, rainwater collection wells, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old water pipes. Air conditioners are developing. Drinking water is usually collected from springs, drawn from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or drawn from lakes and rivers. Building wells in sufficient places is a possible way to produce water, assuming that aquifers can provide enough water. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This can include removing undigested, dissolved and harmful microbes. Popular methods use sand filters that only remove undissolved matter, while chlorination and boiling water kill harmful microbes. Distillation does all three things. More advanced techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination is a more expensive solution than used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water distribution is done through municipal water systems, boat deliveries or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need free of charge. Reducing consumption by using potable water (tax) only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, water is widely used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve water supplies. Contaminated water can be one of the most misused water sources; to the extent that pollution prevents other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits to the polluters. Like other types of pollution, this is not included in the financial records of the market value, it is considered as an externality that cannot be reported by the market. Therefore, third parties pay the costs of water pollution, while the benefits of private companies are not distributed to the local people, who are affected by this pollution. Chemicals that people consume often end up in waterways and can have a negative impact on aquatic life if they accumulate and if they are not broken down. Municipal and industrial wastewater is often treated in wastewater treatment plants. The decrease in water flow is addressed through various prevention and treatment methods. Industrial equipment
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and remove materials, or washing products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing and cooling use large amounts of water, require dedicated water sources, and often cause water pollution. Water is used to generate energy. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water power. Water power comes from the water that sails the boat which is connected to the generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Dams are often built across rivers, creating artificial lakes behind them. The water is forced to flow through the lake by turbines that turn the machine to generate electricity. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. A high pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It's efficient, less expensive, and doesn't harm the environment. It is also used in the cooling machine to prevent overheating, or to prevent the blade from burning. Water is also used in many industrial and mechanical processes, such as steam turbines and heat pumps, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water through industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes solutes (chemical pollution) and cooling water (air pollution). Companies need clean water for many applications and use different clean and water supply systems. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, soaking, and simmering are popular cooking methods that usually involve immersing food in water or its atmospheric state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling point and temperature of the water affect the solutes, as well as atmospheric pressure, which affects the surface area. Water comes from low temperature and low air pressure that occurs at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, an increase in dissolved solids decreases the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the flow of water to the solution for the evaporation of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity- this is important to know because most bacteria stop at low water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect the safety of food, but also the safety and security of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using chemical ion exchange techniques. It can dramatically affect product quality, performance and cleanliness. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report by the Water Footprint organization published in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters of water (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Drug use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution and creation
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of a star is accompanied by a powerful atmosphere of gas and dust. When the ejected material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock wave compresses and heats the gas. Visible water is produced quickly and this gas is heated. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the oceans of the Earth combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the findings show that water is ubiquitous in the universe to the point where it is almost non-existent." Water has been detected in the clouds in the middle of the clouds. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Depending on the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, many other planetary systems may have similar properties. Water vapor
Water as steam in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: and the amount of data that can be determined
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and most of the water in Mercury's exosphere
Venus Air: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% more than absolute atmosphere, usually 1–4% above
Moonlight: in numerical form
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in ice only; and that of its moon Europa
The atmosphere of Saturn - only ice; Enceladus: 91% in Dione (underground ocean)
Air of Uranus - at the mark below 50 bars
The atmosphere of Neptune - is found in the depths of the earth
Solar planetary atmosphere: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cold stars and even to hot giant stars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circular disk: includes more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Water on Earth, covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes available in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that the water in the Saturnian moon of Enceladus, such as a 10-kilometer ocean is about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus in the south, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly combined with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a liquid ocean beneath. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between large ice and rock. Liquid water
Water is like ice and:

 Mars: under regolith and poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanoes NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the Earth's ring system and above the mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon System
Comets and other Kuiper belts are related to the Oort cloud object
It can also be in:

Mercury plant
Tethys

Unique style
Water and other volatiles can include most of the elements in Uranus and Neptune and the water in the ground can be in the form of ionic water in which the particles fall into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and the deeper the water the higher the oxygen is shining, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen. Water and living space
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid form, on Earth is important for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it is a little closer or farther from the sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three types to exist at the same time will be less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold air, including atmospheric water. Small planets like Mars have little or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide heat storage (the greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a constant temperature at the surface of the earth. The condition of the water on the planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the earth. If the planet is very large, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as seen in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is the politics of water and water. Water, especially clean water, is a critical resource across the world and a key factor in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to various forms of life. Access to clean drinking water has increased over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but about one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-related vulnerability. A report released in November 2009, suggests that by the year 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed 50 percent. 1.6 billion people have had access to safe water since 1990. The number of people in developing countries who have access to safe water has increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations said that it will be enough for everyone. Corruption and corruption are prevented. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on aid, donors in the water sector have not been as effective as they have in education and health, may leave many donors who work in collaboration with those who accept governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the causes of some types of water scarcity. Water governance is the legal and informal system through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is basically about knowing which system works best in a given physical and economic situation. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in developed countries to the developing world context. The Mekong River is one example; research by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water, found that a thorough and clear analysis of the benefits and environmental impact assessment is rare. They also found that Cambodia's water laws are more complicated than they need to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-borne diseases, which are often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that 2 billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to proper sanitation. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will experience water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as an epidemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10 percent of the world's population lives in countries that are under extreme stress or danger. But in the last 40 years, water consumption has increased by around 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same time until 2050. Since 2000, floods and temperatures have quadrupled, while floods in the north of mid-latitudes have increased by about 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute works with the goal of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In the year 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered the era of "floods" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries that do not have safe water, 4 billion people receive at least $ 3 billion of water for the water community. age. He called for more realistic policies than previous standards. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleansing agent in many religions. Faiths that involve ablution include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or immersion) of a person in water is the Central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of other religious practices, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, bathing in clean water for the dead is practiced in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, five daily prayers can be offered in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example, in the ceremony of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as ylem, or the basic element of the universe. Thales, who was described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, thought that the earth, which was still full of water, came from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things came from water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing faster than the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors connects water and phlegm, like cold and ooh. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophies take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The best thing is like (the) water, the goodness of the water shows that it is useful for everything, and in it, without effort (on the contrary), the low place that all people do not want. Therefore (its path) is close to (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, but for attacking things that are strong and strong, nothing can precede it - because nothing (effective) can change it." Guanzi and "Shui di" 水地 and "Shui di" 水地 say that the water describes the front of the body. The natural characteristics of the people living in different regions of China and the quality of the country's resources
"Living water" in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept similar to that of a magical anti-aging water. Art and programming
In the remarkable modernist novel Ulysses (1922) written by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the poem is not only a "monotonous thread of truth", but, its phrases, as their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and snow, gather and break, until they subside into a quiet quiescence that closes 'pestilential fens, no longer flow flowerwater, stagnant ponds and' the most reduced water with the force of the hyemmoon is measured in an instant of hyemmoon. According to literary critic Hugh Kenner, "the impossibility of bringing up all the knowledge in a book." The literary theme of "eternal life," and the poem represents the end of the motif in the novel. This is the poem quoted in full water, the watercarrier is coming back, enjoying? Its universal democracy: its permanent equality and its nature requires its level: its vastness and the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed profundity and the Sundam trench of more than 8,000 that cannot be visited on land. the head of its sea: the freedom of its units: the change of the state of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence and calm: it hydrokinetic turgidity and neap and water tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility and circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: climate and commercial means: its preponderance of the globe of 3: its preponderance of the globe. Hegemony extends to the competition in all parts of the subtropical Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its waters: its bed: the ability to dissolve and hold all the soluble English solutions including millions of tons of precious metals: its rapid erosions of peninsulas and lowlands: all its weight and weight: all its weight. imperturbability and lagoons and mountain tarn: gradation of color and torrid and climate in frigid zones: its car ramifications and continental lakes with currents and confluent oceans and flowing rivers and their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south water flow, water flow, water flow, water flow. eruptions, currents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundation, deluges, cloudbursts: his great circle of circles: his secret secrets and fountains, and latent moisture, which is revealed and well through space well. in the walls of the Ashtown gate, the saturation of the air, the distillation of the dew: the simplicity of its composition, two composed of parts of hydrogen and one composed of parts of oxygen: its healing action: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its permanent penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, insufficient dams, leaking its properties, making the fire shine on the ship. a nourishing herb: it cannot be made like a paradise and a paragon: its metamorphoses are like steam, mist, clouds, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength and strong hydrants: its diversity in loughs and bays and gulfs and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and harbors and strong seas. glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its ability to operate hydraulic mills, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleaching, baths, scutchmills: its value in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and drawing: its power is obtained from water that descends or falls under water. flora (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: it everywhere seems to make up 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia and lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant lakes and the moon is waning. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster treated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which approved the Cathedral's long-term plan based on our water. The largest exhibition that appeared in the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an environmental collection of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation as a UN human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned 10 artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a name for water that is often used technically but rarely. The name is used in a sly and mocking sense of scientific ignorance. This began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day story appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake news has security concerns about the item. Music
Many Florida singers have used the word "Water" as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Moving forward, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
Reference
Installed service
Another reading
External links

World water data page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Timeline: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
USGS
Portal with plans, projects and related documents of the World Bank on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Management and Science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary