Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the earth's rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, which acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds which are a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or organic micronutrients. Due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the water triple point, water exists on Earth in solid, liquid, and gaseous forms. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water droplets and ice, in a solid state. If broken up finely, ice crystals can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous form of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans occupying the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). A small proportion of water occurs in the form of groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air in the form of vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans is used for agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fishing has been and continues to be a major food source for many countries around the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance commodity trade (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat via sea, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boats, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, a suffixed form of the root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also cognate, via Indo-European roots, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. History
On Earth
Property
Water (H2O) is an inorganic compound that is polar. At room temperature, this liquid is tasteless and odorless, almost colorless with a slight blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be a "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special measures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only substance that commonly exists in solid, liquid, and gaseous forms under normal terrestrial conditions. America
Besides oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. Two other common states of water matter are the solid phase, namely ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within a certain temperature range; it is the only natural substance known to function in liquid form. Additionally, it is unusual in that its density decreases significantly when frozen, although it is not unique in that regard. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of the water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, causing pipes to burst and rock to splinter. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water beneath it, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms in the lake would perish during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat throughout the planet's oceans. magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets the interaction can be achieved. Phase transition
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and boiling water or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below its boiling point, water can turn to vapor at its surface through evaporation (evaporation throughout a liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost deposits on cold surfaces, whereas snowflakes form through deposition on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on the surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              Q
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              Q
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with increasing pressure. However, because the mass of ice is smaller than water, its melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur beneath sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to boiling points, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep sea or underground. For example, temperatures exceeded 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at an altitude of 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired results. On the other hand, a pressure cooker can be used to shorten cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical point
In the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These three phases meet at one point called the triple point, where the three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to determine the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the tipping point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between densities such as gas and liquid; its properties (which are very different from those of the surrounding water) are density sensitive. For example, at appropriate pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution, and deposition of minerals. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on the earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another ice with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms another crystalline structure. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several others predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical properties of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that this unusual behavior is caused by the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the suitability of water to avoid water that is too salty or foul. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue due to light absorption in area c. 600–800nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to swimming pools when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower water tone means glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental strain absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solutions in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette should be transparent at around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one of the materials commonly used for window cuvettes with water solutions. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than the refractive index of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms will form angles of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs of electrons is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atom has a partial positive charge. Along with its bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugar and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter of which produces fizz like carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interactions between water and these biomacromolecular subunits shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important for life (hydrophobic effects). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils, and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonds
Due to its polarity, water molecules in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. This also explains its very high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in regulating Earth's climate, by storing heat and transferring it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to O–H covalent bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this amount, it is estimated that 90% is caused by electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is caused by partial covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary force of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move upwards in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This characteristic is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the dissolution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic materials such as common salt. Liquid water can be broken down into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released through the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in an ocean with a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water only decreases in volume by 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (approximately 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the earth. The science that studies the distribution of water is hydrography. The science that studies the distribution and movement of groundwater is called hydrogeology, the science of glaciers is called glaciology, the science of inland waters is called limnology, and the science of the distribution of the oceans is called oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The estimated volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or puddles. The majority of water on earth is sea water. Water is also found in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor form. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and groundwater pressure influences fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the earth's surface, water plays an important role in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs across the Earth's surface. Transported sedimentary deposits form various types of sedimentary rocks, which form a geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these areas in a water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the earth or ocean. Runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the oceans returns to the oceans, but the wind carries water vapor to land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration that occur on land also contribute 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, takes several forms: the most common are rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when high density water vapor encounters a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before the sun rises and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Water condensed in the air can also refract sunlight, producing a rainbow. Water runoff often collects in watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide fertile soil and level ground for the development of residential centers. Flooding occurs when an area, usually low-lying land, is covered with water which occurs when rivers overflow or storm surges occur. On the other hand, drought is a period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall because of its topography or because of its location in latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural resources in the form of water that have potential benefits for humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as “stock” and “flow”. Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, as well as ice and snow. Of the total global volume of fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water is stored varies greatly: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing in the dry season and increasing in the wet season. Most of the water supply in some regions consists of water drawn from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, supplies are reduced. Based on estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
The average seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in several important ways. It freezes at lower temperatures (around −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at temperatures above the freezing point. Water salinity in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the local cycle of rising and falling sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of sea water bodies and estuaries and produce oscillating currents called tidal currents. Tidal changes that occur at a location are the result of changes in the position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth plus the influence of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. Shorelines that are submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, are an important ecological product of tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are important for the reproduction of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is very important both as a solvent that dissolves many dissolved substances in the body and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g. starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (e.g. glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes would not exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate water hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water also plays an important role in acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, i.e. a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 under ideal circumstances. Acids have a pH value of less than 7 while bases have a value of more than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters teem with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as seaweed and algae grow in water and are the basis of several underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do this in a variety of ways. Fish have gills, not lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit various modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life developed in aquatic habitats, most had little or no specialization for underwater respiration. Its impact on human civilization
Civilizations have historically developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, lies between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society depended entirely on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolitan cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success largely to accessibility by waterway and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbor waters, such as Singapore, also thrive for the same reason. In countries such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water that is suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made into drinking water through filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than drinking water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually controlled by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of chlorine that has not reacted with sewage for bathing water). Water for bathing can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of changing wastewater (generally wastewater, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of urban wastewater is produced globally every year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which is recirculated through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressure on access to water is caused by its uneven natural distribution in space and time, increasing economic demand from the agricultural and industrial sectors, and increasing population. Today, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the UN established the Millennium Development Goals aimed at halving the number of people in the world without access to clean water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards the goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goal to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; About five million deaths each year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea every year. In developing countries, 90% of all urban wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers. Some 50 countries, accounting for about a third of the world's population, also experience moderate or high levels of water scarcity and 17 of them withdraw more water each year than can be replenished through their natural water cycles. This tension not only impacts surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also reduces groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The greatest use of water by humans is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which reaches 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is used for irrigation, but most of the water that is “consumed” (used and not returned to the environment) is used for agriculture. Access to clean water is often neglected, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and distribute water, as well as dispose of waste water. However, increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat increases, and demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water challenges may emerge. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see whether the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. This report assesses the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and maps locations experiencing water scarcity. It was found that a fifth of the world's population, or more than 1.2 billion people, live in areas experiencing physical water scarcity, that is, areas that do not have enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in regions experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or lack of human capacity means authorities cannot meet water needs. The report finds that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of current food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demand, while industry and cities look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. Take cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, that water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water shortages. Significant environmental damage has occurred: for example, the Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was a major cause of the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to the cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". However, for practical purposes, a metal reference standard is needed, which is a thousand times larger, namely the kilogram. Therefore, work was carried out to determine exactly the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the gram definition defines water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and take measurements at the temperature with the highest density of water, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally determined based on the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mostly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain lighter isotopes than sea water. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The average human body contains 50–60% water, depending on age, gender, and body size, although each individual may have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity levels, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most are ingested through food or drink other than drinking water directly. Medical literature supports lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss due to exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary when exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that “a person should consume eight glasses of water per day” appears to have no real basis in science. Research has shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is very helpful in preventing constipation. The original recommendations for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The general standard for a wide range of people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in ready-to-eat foods." The most recent dietary reference intake report issued by the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that water contained in food provided approximately 19% of the total water intake in the survey. In particular, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends the average man consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should increase their intake to 3 liters (12 cups), because a large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that usually around 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in various forms; through urine and feces, through sweat, and through exhaled water vapor in the breath. With physical activity and heat exposure, water loss increases and daily fluid requirements also increase. Humans need water with little impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and dangerous bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide needed electrolytes. The single largest source of fresh water (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less frequently as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these traits are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently become a research topic. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. Hot exchange
Water and steam are fluids commonly used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be available naturally from a lake or sea. It is very effective for transporting heat through evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and as a coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or carry it out through evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants constitute the largest use of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water functions as a coolant and moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered in water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, so it is a good fire extinguishing fluid. Evaporation of water brings heat from the fire. The use of water on fires involving oil and organic solvents is very dangerous because many organic materials float on the water and the water tends to spread the burning fluid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the dangers of steam explosions, which may occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or graphite coke, decompose water to produce water gas. The power of the explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case came not from the fire extinguisher but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when excess heat in the core causes water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may occur due to the reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide lime, also known as calcium oxide, is a substance that is mass produced and often transported in paper bags. If completely submerged, the material can catch fire because the contents react with the water. Recreation
Humans use water for a variety of recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing, and diving. Additionally, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches, and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and look of flowing water relaxing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require low-temperature water to either be in the form of ice or crystallize into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, reservoirs to collect rainwater, water supply networks and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old water channels. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, drawn from artificial holes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Thus, building more wells in adequate locations is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifer can supply sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve the removal of insoluble substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. A popular method is sand filtration which removes only insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution if used in coastal areas with dry climates. Drinking water distribution is via municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those who need it free of charge. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, sea water is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city in order to save fresh water resources. Water pollution is perhaps the greatest misuse of water; if one pollutant limits other water uses, it wastes resources, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it is not included in standard market cost calculations, as it is considered an externality that cannot be taken into account by the market. Thus, other parties have to bear the consequences of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local residents, who are victims of the pollution. Drugs consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have a detrimental impact on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require dedicated water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectric power is electricity obtained from hydroelectric power plants. Hydroelectric power generation comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectric power is a low-cost, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Usually dams are built on rivers, creating artificial lakes behind them. The water that flows out of the lake is channeled through a turbine that turns a generator. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. A high-pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in engine cooling to prevent overheating, or prevent the saw blade from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial purposes is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and disposal. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could “threaten global and national water security”. Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and stewing are popular cooking methods that often require food to be submerged in water or in the form of gas, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Dissolved substances such as salt and sugar contained in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling point and freezing point of water are influenced by dissolved substances, as well as air pressure, which is in turn influenced by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also influence water activity which influences many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water decrease water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity levels. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or overcome using chemical ion exchange systems. This can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate contained in the water. Water is classified as soft if the content is less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also explain that these are global averages and indirect factors that determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by powerful winds of gas and dust. When this outflow of material finally impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock wave compresses and heats the gas. It was observed that water was rapidly produced in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, “this discovery shows that water has been abundant in the universe for almost its entire existence.” Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water may also occur in abundant quantities in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems likely have similar elements. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Solar atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% throughout the atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon Atmosphere: in small quantities
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Ceres atmosphere
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and its moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – at just under 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere – found in deeper layers
Exoplanet atmospheres: includes the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and have even been detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares, and Arcturus. Circumstellar disc: includes more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is found on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water exists on Saturn's moons Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean located about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus' south pole, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as layers sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: primarily as ice layers on Earth and in Moon craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also the surfaces of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon System
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it may also be present at:

poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatile materials probably make up most of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune and water in deeper layers may take the form of ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The presence of water in liquid form, and to a lesser extent in gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), then the conditions that would allow all three forms to exist simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin atmospheres or even no atmosphere at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps keep surface temperatures relatively stable when their amounts are regular. The state of water on a planet depends on environmental pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water within it may be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is politics that is influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource throughout the world and an important element in many political conflicts. This causes health impacts and damages biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has increased over recent decades in almost every part of the world, but around one billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion people lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers predict that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerabilities. A report released in November 2009 showed that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to clean water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries who have access to clean water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 UN report stated that "there is enough water for everyone", but access to water is hampered by errors. management. and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been implemented by water sector donors as effectively as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and aid recipient governments lacking the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the causes of water scarcity. Water governance is a series of formal and informal processes through which decisions regarding water management are made. Good water governance is fundamentally about knowing what processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes sometimes occur when trying to apply 'blueprints' that have been successful in developed countries to developing country locations and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on Mekong river water found that comprehensive and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's water bill was much more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from a preventable water-related disease, often caused by a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. The urban population (2.4 billion people) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is described as an endemic disease due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water shortages. But over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by 2.5 times. Flood costs between 2000 and 2019 were 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions relating to water are the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day is on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of the great lakes had shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands had been lost since 1970, 75% of the world's population lived in water-scarce countries, 4 billion people experienced water scarcity for at least one month per year, and drought caused losses of $307 billion per year. This calls for policies that correspond to reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered cleansing in most religions. Religions that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or molestation or immersion) of a person in water is the main Sacrament of Christianity (which is called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Mandi), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, ritual bathing with pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example, in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing people, places, and objects, or as a means of exorcising evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles viewed water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be the ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which was denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The four body fluid theory associates water with phlegm, because it is cold and moist. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Several traditional and popular philosophical systems in Asia use water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (water). The greatness of water is seen in its benefit to all things, and in occupying, without effort (otherwise), a low place that is not liked by all. Therefore (its way) is close to (the way of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in this world softer and weaker than water, but to attack a solid and strong thing, nothing can take precedence—for there is nothing (so efficacious) that can change it." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 further elaborates on the symbolism of water, stating that "man is water" and linking the natural traits of people in various regions of China to the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Consider Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical water that supposedly prevents aging. Art and activism
In the seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism consisting of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply a "monotonous set of facts," but rather its phrases, like its subject, "ebb and flow, rising and falling, gathering and breaking, until everything subsides in the tranquil serenity of 'the swamp of disease, the waters of fading flowers, the puddles of the waning moon.'" The hymn is considered one of the most extraordinary passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of lifting into poetry all the chaos of information accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal and ever-changing life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. Below is the hymn quoted in full. What does Bloom admire, the water lover, the water carrier, the water carrier returning to his home range? Its universality: its democratic equality and its steadfastness in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean Mercator projection: its unexplored depth in the Sundam trough of the Pacific which exceeds 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles that visit all points of its sea coast: the independence of its units: the variability of conditions in sea waters: its hydrostatic calm in calm conditions: its hydrokinetic turgidity at ebb and spring: the subsidence of land after destruction: its sterility in ice sheets circumpolar, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: outnumbered 3 to 1 over the dry lands of the earth: its undisputed hegemony extends in square leagues throughout the region beneath the subequatorial tropics Capricorn: its multisecular stability in its ancient basins: its luteofulvous layer: its ability to dissolve and hold all soluble substances in solution including millions of tons of the most valuable metals: its slow erosion on peninsulas and capes that tend to subside: deposits its alluvial: its weight and volume and density: its tranquility in lagoons and plateaus: its color gradations in the torrid and temperate and cold zones: the bifurcation of vehicles in continental lakes containing flowing rivers and ocean currents rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: the gulf stream, the northern and southern equatorial belt: its violence in sea earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, rapids, whirlpools, fresh currents, barrages, large waves, areas river flow, water flow, geyser, cataract, whirlpool, whirlpool, puddle, flood, cloudburst: the region around the earth's vast ahorizontal curve: its secrecy in springs, and latent moisture, indicated by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well near the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing properties: power its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its constant penetrating power in waterways, sewers, inadequate dams, leaks in ships: its cleansing properties, quenching thirst and fire, fertilizing vegetation: its perfection as a paradigm and exemplar: it metamorphoses as steam, fog, clouds, rain, hail, snow, hail: its power in rigid hydrants: its various forms in bays and gulfs and bays and bays and bays and entrails and lagoons and atolls and islands and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and sea arms: its robustness in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its suitability in running hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleaching, tanneries, scutchmills: its use in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and cemeteries: its potential to be obtained from the use of tides or flows of water falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anakakustik, photophobe) is numerically, if not literally, an inhabitant of the world: its presence that covers 90% of the human body: the dangers of its waste in lake swamps, disease-ridden marshes, water of waning flowers, puddles of water on the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at St. Paul's Cathedral. John the Divine in New York City, which became the cornerstone of the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever held at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, a collective of ecological artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. A parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fool's article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story contained concerns about the safety of the material. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Furthermore, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Note
References
Works cited
Further reading
External link

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to World Bank related strategies, work and publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, min 3:16, 2019
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary