Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds which contribute to a large extent to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance worldwide, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made up of suspended droplets of water and ice, in a solid state. When finely broken down, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (approximately 96.5%). Small portions of water are found as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and polar ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (made up of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continually moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans is used for agriculture. Fisheries in salt and fresh water bodies have been, and continue to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by vessel across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such it is widely used in industrial processes, cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also essential for many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water derives from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffix form of the root *wed- ("water"; "wet"). It is also related, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence the English 'hydro-'), to Russian вода́ (vodá), to Irish uisce and to Albanian ujë. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water as it is found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and particular steps are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or vapor. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does this while liquid. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in this regard. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0°C (32°F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its liquid phase density is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98°C (39.16°F), the volume of the water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it shows the normal behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface and floats on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms residing in lakes would die during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, a remarkable interaction can be achieved with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0°C (32°F), and water boils or steam condenses at 100°C (212°F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn to vapor on its surface through evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or an ice core. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of the melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              t
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              t
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      l
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              l
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            l
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 e 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, e 
  
    
      
        
          l
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting under pressure can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in the formation of subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also holds for the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the depths of the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205°C (401°F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400°C (752°F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100°C (212°F). Since atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, you can use the pressure cooker to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate the solid from the vapor, the vapor from the liquid, and the liquid from the solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the tipping point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gaseous and liquid densities; its properties (which are very different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at appropriate pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another ice with cubic crystal symmetry, Ic ice, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and many more are predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, Ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances which can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the drinkability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, in the case of a swimming pool, when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the swimming pool. In nature the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower tones of water means that short-path glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of approximately 25 μm is required. Furthermore, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for aqueous solution cuvette windows. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of an oxygen-centered tetrahedron. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The OH bond length is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the folded structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, as it dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, the latter giving the fizz in carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. Furthermore, many substances present in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are approximately 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow pipe against the force of gravity. This property is invoked by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing it through an electric current, a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires a greater energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water undergoes a decrease in volume of only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km per 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are at the heart of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found above, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which constitute the geological record of the Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves perpetually through each of these regions in the water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from plants and land animals into the air. precipitation, due to water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the land or ocean. runoff from land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor to land at the same rate as outflow into the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is made up of small drops of water that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before dawn and when the Earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Water condensed in the air can also refract sunlight and produce rainbows. Water runoff often collects in watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat terrain for the creation of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is a prolonged period of months or years in which a region experiences a shortage of water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently lower-than-average precipitation due to its topography or location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or water for irrigation. Water occurs as both “stocks” and “flows.” Water can be stored in the form of lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, approximately 69% is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30% is found in groundwater; and the remaining 1% in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers are made up of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A substantial portion of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in reservoirs, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, supplies decline. By some estimates, up to 30% of total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from those of fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)), and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its very high salinity levels of between 30 and 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine water bodies and estuaries and produce oscillating currents known as tidal flows. The tidal change produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth together with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of coastline submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately enable replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g. starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate hydrogen in water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also critical for acid-base neutrality and enzymatic function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, i.e. a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values below 7 while bases have values above 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are full of life. The first life forms appeared in the water; almost all fish live exclusively in water and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and kelp grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive and they do so in various ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Effects on human civilization
Historically, civilization has flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main Tigris and Euphrates rivers; the ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber River. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean water has been and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation or by a number of other methods. Over 660 million people do not have access to drinking water. Water that is not potable but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than drinking or potable water, and is sometimes called safe or "safe for bathing" water. Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of chlorine not yet reacted with impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people residing in water-scarce nations, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of urban wastewater are produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressures on access to it derive from the naturally uneven distribution in space and time, from the growing economic demands from agriculture and industry and from the increase in population. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water, aimed at halving by 2015 the percentage of people in the world without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; approximately five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that drinking water could prevent the deaths of 1.4 million children every year due to diarrhea. In developing countries, 90% of all urban wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. Around 50 countries, with around a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity, and 17 of these extract more water each year than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades underground water resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most substantial human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90% of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is intended for irrigation, but the vast majority of water “consumed” (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for water collection, purification, distribution and wastewater removal. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increase, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see whether the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. The study found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, lives in areas characterized by physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas that suffer from economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report finds that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton, equivalent to a pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage has been caused: for example, the diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers by the former Soviet Union to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795 the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a metre, and to the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard was needed, a thousand times more massive than the kilogram. Work was then commissioned to precisely determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the enacted definition of the gram specified water at 0°C (32°F) – a highly reproducible temperature – the scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of water's maximum density, which at the time was measured at 4°C (39°F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined exactly as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined based on the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. River and lake water tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, sex and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gallons) for women. The precise amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or drinks other than drinking water. Medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average male, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during physical activity, putting them at risk of water intoxication (overhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" appears to have no scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, specifically up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with meals, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is useful for preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "A common standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest US National Research Council Dietary Reference Intake report generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that water in food provided approximately 19% of total water intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The United States Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), and breastfeeding women should take in 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that normally around 20% of the water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and drinks (including those containing caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and feces, through sweating and exhaling water vapor into the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for improving taste and providing necessary electrolytes. The largest resource of potable fresh water (by volume) is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transport
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reagents well and is amphoteric (acid and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Furthermore, an acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are fluids commonly used for heat exchange, thanks to their availability and high thermal capacity, both for cooling and heating. Fresh water may also be naturally available from a lake or the sea. It is particularly effective at transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a refrigerant (used to exchange waste heat in a body of water or carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants account for the largest use of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a sort of passive safety measure, since removing water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping a reaction are preferred and it is preferable to keep the nuclear nucleus covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Considerations on fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the risks of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke-graphite, decompose the water to produce water gas. The power of such explosions was demonstrated in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting equipment but from the reactor's water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, particularly those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these get wet, they may catch fire as their contents react with water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. Additionally, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and have fun. Many find the sound and look of flowing water to be calming, and fountains and other structures with running water are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for show, entertainment and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at low temperatures in the form of ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting tanks, water supply networks and water purification plants, water tanks, water towers, water mains including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. The most popular methods are sand filtering which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, via cistern or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce its use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for toilet flushes throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution may be the biggest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not fit into standard market cost accounting, being conceived as an externality that the market cannot take into account. Thus, others pay the price for water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is generally treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous slurries, or using water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulp processing, pulp bleaching, paper making, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in energy production. Hydroelectric energy is electricity obtained from hydroelectric power. Hydroelectric energy comes from water driving a hydraulic turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectric energy is a renewable, low-cost and non-polluting source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically a dam is built across a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that drive generators. Pressurized water is used in hydroblasters and waterjet cutters. For precise cutting, high pressure water guns are used. It works very well, is relatively safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses constitutes pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). The industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both the supply and discharge of water. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of artificial intelligence can “threaten global and national water security.” Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars present in water influence the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure occurring at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water increases the boiling point of water by 0.51°C (0.918°F), and one mole of salt per kg increases the boiling point by 1.02°C (1.836°F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also influence water activity which influences many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in foods. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity: This is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be altered or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can greatly influence the quality of a product, as well as playing an important role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate contained in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is included in the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material hits the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this hot, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery demonstrates that water has been present in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the formation and evolution patterns of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Venus Atmosphere: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the entire atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: trace amounts
Mars Atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subterranean ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – in traces below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – is found in the deepest layers
Atmospheres of exoplanets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: Not limited to cooler stars and also detected in hot, giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on Saturn's moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30 to 40 kilometers below Enceladus's south polar surface, and on Titan, as a subterranean layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Primarily as ice sheets on Earth, in lunar craters, and in volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa but also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud objects
And it is probably also present on:

The poles of Mercury
Thetis

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatile elements likely comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water in which oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The Earth's size also plays a role: Its gravity allows it to hold onto an atmosphere, including moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is sufficiently massive, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but around one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-related vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The percentage of people in developing countries who have access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report states that "there is enough water for everyone", but that access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid distribution, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by water donors as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions relating to water management are made. Good water governance is mainly about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in attempts to apply “designs” that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is an example of this; A review conducted by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely undertaken. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than necessary. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related illnesses, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided policymakers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations interested in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the goal of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The conventions relating to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of “water bankruptcy” because more than 50% of large lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, 4 billion people suffer from water scarcity for at least one month a year, and drought costs $307 billion a year. He called for policies that correspond to reality rather than the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or infusion) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Furthermore, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is unavailable (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of people, places and objects, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as a source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and considered it a ylem, or fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things were made from water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – flowing easily relative to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as it was cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of water). The excellence of water appears in its benefit to all things and in its occupying, without striving (on the contrary), the low place which all men detest. Hence (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and strong not there is nothing that can take precedence over it, since there is nothing (so effective) for it to be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 further elaborates on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing natural qualities to people of different origins. Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale (“The Water of Life”) and the Russian dichotomy between living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's important modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as "the water hymn." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply a "monotonous series of facts," rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside in the calm quiescence of conclusion" pestilential swamps, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. ""The hymn is considered one of the most remarkable passages of Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, it achieves "the unlikely feat of raising to poetry all the disorder of information which has accumulated in school-books." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal and ever-changing life" and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What did Bloom, lover of water, attractor of water, bringer of water returning to the mountain range, admire in the water? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of the Mercator projection: its unexplored depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific which exceeds 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles which visit from time to time all points of its coast: the independence of its units: the variability of sea states: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgor in central and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the polar, Arctic and Antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3 to 1 preponderance over the dry lands of the globe: its indisputable hegemony extending in square leagues over the entire region beneath the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-century stability of its primordial waters basin: its lutealvous bed: its ability to dissolve and retain in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of the peninsulas and headlands sloping downwards: its alluvial deposits: its weight, volume and density: its imperturbability in the lagoons and lakes plateaus: its gradation of colors in the torrid and temperate and cold zones: its ramifications vehicular in waterways and confluences contained in continental lakes ocean-flowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: the Gulf Stream, the northern and southern equatorial courses: its violence in tsunamis, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, vortices, jaws, floods, waves, watersheds, water divisions, geysers, cataracts, vortices, maelstroms, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its secrecy in the springs and latent moisture, revealed by dowsing or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well at the hole in the wall of the Ashtown gate, saturation of the air, distillation of the dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetrativity in streams, ravines, inadequate dams, leaks on board ships: its properties of purification, of quenching thirst and fire, of nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as a paradigm and example: its metamorphoses into steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid fire hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and bends and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tides estuaries and inlets of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, in icebergs, in ice floes: its docility in operating hydraulic mills, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleaches, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, in rivers, if navigable, in floating docks and gravitational: its potential derived from harnessed tides or waterways that fall from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as it constitutes 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lake swamps, in pestilent swamps, in faded flowering waters, in stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the United Nations declaring access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
“Dihydrogen monoxide” is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a number of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It all started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a Durand, Michigan, newspaper. The false story consisted of concerns about the safety of the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or improvisation. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

The World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The History of Water Conflicts: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 in the Internet Archive
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and related publications
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Internet Archive
Water in the network
Structure and science of water Archived December 28, 2014 in the Internet Archive
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Internet Archive (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022, in the Internet Archive
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary