Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and virtually colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth’s rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, acting as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a large contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital for all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy or organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of clouds. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, ice crystals can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for most of the volume of water (about 96.5%). Small fractions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continues to move through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat via seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industries and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water is derived from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from in Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffixed root form *wed- . ('water'; 'wet'). Also related, by Indo-European roots, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. History
On the Earth
The Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is a poor dissolver of nonpolar substances. This allows it to become the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to achieve chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal conditions on earth. State of the art
Along with oxidane, water is one of two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to vapor), condensation (vapor in water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). Density of
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within a certain temperature; it is the only known natural substance to do so while liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert considerable pressure, fracturing pipes and cracking rock. As a solid, it shows typical contracting behavior and becomes more dense as it cools. These unique thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, the water sinks 4 °C (39 °F) to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating in the liquid water. This ice insulates the water at the bottom, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms that live in lakes will be destroyed during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important component of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, in superconducting magnets it may achieve remarkable interaction. Component changes
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can vaporize on its surface by evaporation (the evaporation of the entire liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, ice is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so the ice on its surface recombines. The melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melt temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  − that
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\ display style {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\ text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\ text {S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display style L_{\ text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature exceeded 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 metres. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical point
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three components can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure that liquid water can have. Until 2019, the triple point is used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as a critical point. At higher temperature and pressure the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can miscible freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically sound solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Partially ice and water
The common form of ice on the Earth’s surface is ice Ih, the phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and a few more have been theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, the face-centered-cubic, superionic phase of ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised water pressure millions of atmospheres and its temperature thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of hard oxygen atoms that hydrogen atoms are free to flow. When anchored between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; other theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Clean water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from conventional sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and some animals have developed senses that enable them to judge the drinkability of water in order to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is seen blue due to absorption of light in region c. 600–800 nm. The color is easily observed in a glass of tap-water set against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. Apparent color intensity increases with depth of the water column, following Beer’s law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used in aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with shorter path-lengths can be used. To observe the basic stretch absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass types (1.4 to 1.6). The refraction index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In the water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5° angle with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the oxygen-centered tetrahedron. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form a 109.5° angle, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the flexible structure, it gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why water has a much higher solubility and boiling point than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its remarkably high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in calming the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% are related to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% are partially covalent. These bonds cause high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow pipe against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, along with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when a small amount of ionic material such as common salt is dissolved. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans at 4 km depth, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydrogens and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a type of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, inland water is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are in the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and on the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of earth’s water (the world’s total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or puddles. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. At the Earth’s surface, water is vital to both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport occurring at the surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which constitute the geological record of Earth history. Cycle of water
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves perpetually through each of these regions in the water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from the oceans and other bodies of water to the air and transpiration from land plants and animals to the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling on land or ocean. flows from land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found predominantly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor to the surface at the same rate as the tide into the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from cloud and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that accumulate when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when surface temperatures begin to rise. Accumulated water in the air can also refract sunlight to create rainbows. Runoff often converges over watersheds draining into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. A drought, on the other hand, is a prolonged period of months or years when a region perceives a deficiency in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently lower than average rainfall either because of topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage varies greatly: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A large part of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks deplete. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawal, causing groundwater depletion. Seawater and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, along with smaller amounts of other substances. The physical characteristics of seawater differ from those of fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature until the freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of the water in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tide is the cyclic rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides generated at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of shoreline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean currents. Impact on life
From a biological perspective, water has many distinct properties that are critical to the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to behave in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body’s solutes are dissolved and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through the energy required by enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun’s energy to split water’s hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize to hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also key to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. The acid, the hydrogen ion (H+, that is, the proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as the hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in ideal conditions. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The waters above the earth are full of life. The first forms of aquatic life appeared; almost all fish are aquatic, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis of several underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to dive from time to time to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a variety of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in the aquatic habitat, most had little or no specialization for aquatic breathing. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lies between the major rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber river in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people lack access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make bathing or drinking water safe. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of chlorine that has not yet reacted with impurities for bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological state by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in nations with water scarcity, which means each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on its access result from naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demand by agriculture and industry, and increasing populations. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve the percentage of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and bad sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world’s population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these extract more water annually than they can recharge through their natural water cycles. The species not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater resources. Use the person
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Freshwater access is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed sophisticated water systems for collecting, treating, and delivering water, and removing wastewater. But growing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and economy continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-consuming industries arise, new water challenges are possible. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world’s people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. An additional 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where a lack of water investment or inadequate human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuity of today’s food production and environmental trends is leading to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also due to production of water intensive products. Cotton, for example: 1 kilogram of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, the water is used in regions already threatened by water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage was caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the loss of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one cube of hundredths of a metre, and at the temperature of melted ice". But for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, is needed. The task of determining the exact mass of a liter of water was therefore set. Despite the fact that the fixed definition of the gram set water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly repeatable temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of water's maximum density, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple water point, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined according to the boiling point (defined at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (defined at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is composed primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but this still affects the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, sex and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are consumed through foods or drinks in addition to drinking straight water. The medical literature favors a lower consumption, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding the extras required due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) at mealtime, is associated with weight gain. Drinking enough fluids can help prevent constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council read: "A common standard for various people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The most recent dietary reference intake report by the U.S. National Research Council in general recommended, based on median total water intake from U.S. survey data. (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for males and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for females, noting that water contained a given food approximately 19% of total drinking water in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and nursing women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should get 3 liters (12 cups), since especially large amounts of fluid are lost during lactation. It was also observed that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the remainder comes from drinking water and beverages (caffeinated included). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; by urine and faeces, by perspiration, and by inhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss increases and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with minimal impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical applications
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not commonly used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and it is amphoteric (acidic and base) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, the acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. Supercritical water has been a recent research topic. Oxygen-filled supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Exchange of heat
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. Heat transport by evaporation and condensation of water is particularly effective because of its large latent heat of vaporization. The drawback is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly with untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed-loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat with the water body or transport it by evaporation to the cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest users of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are favored for stopping a reaction and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it an ideal firefighting fluid. The evaporation of water carries away the heat from the fire. Using water on fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because a lot of organic material floats in the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the dangers of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosion, when substances reacting with water, such as certain metals or hot coals such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite produces water gas. The power of those explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case came not from firefighting but from the reactor’s own cooling water system. A steam explosion occurred when intense core heating caused water to flash into steam. Hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, primarily those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when reacting with water that a fire hazard can arise. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance often transported in paper bags. When they are wet, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use the water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and for sports. Some of these include swimming, waterskiing, swimming, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lake shores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and enjoy entertainment. Many find the sound and look of running water calming, and fountains and other running water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals inside aquariums or ponds for display, fun, and company. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at low temperatures either as ice or as crystalline snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, cisterns for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes as well as old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are underway. Drinking water is often collected in springs, taken from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in sufficient areas is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve the removal of insoluble substances, soluble substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which removes only insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distilling does all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is an expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need free of charge. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Polluting water may be the greatest single misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits of the pollutant. Like other types of pollution, it does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs, which are conceived as externalities for which the market cannot account. Thus some people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, who are victims of this pollution. Drugs that people ingest often end up in waterways and can have detrimental effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of foul surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using water-soluble chemicals, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and remove substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulverizing, pulp bleaching, paper making, textile production, dyeing, printing, and refrigeration in power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. The energy is supplied by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that drive generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precision cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is environmentally friendly. It is also used in the cooling of machinery to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). The industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses huge amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many critical roles within the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure occurring at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect the activity of water affecting many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is another critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can have a significant impact on product quality, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate contained in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors are also clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical uses
Injection water is on the World Health Organization’s list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the universe’s water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong wind that releases gas and dust. When this leakage of material eventually affects the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The water observed is quickly produced in this warm dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water is pervasive in the universe for almost its entire existence" Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably present in abundance in other galaxies, too, because its components, hydrogen, and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. The water is steaming
Water exists as vapor in:

Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace quantities
Mercury’s atmosphere: 3.4%, and lots of water in Mercury’s exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002% Earth’s atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the surface of the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% of the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in trace amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03% Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ices only; and that of his moon Europe
Saturn’s atmosphere – in ices only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean) Atmosphere of Uranus – in trace amounts below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in deeper layers
Planetary extrasolar atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cool stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometre-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers beneath Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high pressure ice and rock. Ice the water
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under regolith and on poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice plains on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: The surface of Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon System
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it’s probably in:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys is

Foreign forms
Water and other volatiles may comprise much of the inner structures of Uranus and Neptune and water in deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water where molecules collapse in a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water where oxygen crystallizes, but ions of hydrogen float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitat
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), conditions that allow the three forms to exist simultaneously are far less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including the moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars are very thin or have no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is large enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as is observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but about one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world’s population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The percentage of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there is enough water for everyone", . but that access to it is hindered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid delivery efficiency, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up as effectively by water sector donors as they have in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments powerless to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply ‘blueprints’ that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong river is one example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries dependent on the Mekong river for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also found that Cambodia’s draft water law is much more complex than it needs to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) will have no access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) will lack safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate through 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Day for Water will be held on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. By 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "Water Bankruptcy" because over 50% of the great lakes have declined since 1990, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, 4 billion people experience water scarcity for at least one month per year, and drought costs $307 billion per year. He called for policies in line with reality rather than past policies. In the culture
Religion
Water is considered cleansing in most religions. Faiths that involve ritual ablution include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a fundamental Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of training in other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless there is no water (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals that purify a person or a place (e.g., in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be the ylem, or primary substance of the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which was denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things were made from water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – it flowed easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associated water with phlegm, as cool and moist. The classic water element was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its rewarding all things, and in its occupying, effortlessly (on the contrary), the low place not liked by all men." Thus (his way) is close to (that of) Man" and "Nothing in the world is softer and weaker than water, and yet for attacking things firm and strong nothing can precede it—for nothing (so effective) can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter is more explaining the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing the natural qualities of the people of different regions of China to the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a way to bring the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical water that is supposed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, ebb and swell, gather and decay, until they descend into the calm silence of ending 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the owing moon.'" The hymn is considered one of the most unique passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the incredible feat of raising to poetry all the complexity of footling information gathered in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following is an excerpt from the full hymn. What in water did Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, watercarrier admire back in the range?Its universality: its democratic equality and its sincerity of being in search of its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: rest of waves and surface particles visiting in succession all points of its shore: the independence of its units: the change of sea states: its hydrostatic stillness in the calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neaps and spring tides: its erosion after destruction: its sterility in circumpolar ones icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its prosperity of 3 to 1 over the dry land of the globe: its undisputed hegemony extending in square leagues to all regions below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous a kamana: its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its gradual erosion of peninsulas and down down promontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: its undisturbance in lagoons and high tarns: temperate and cold zones: its vehicular ramifications in continental lakes containing rivers and contiguous tributaries with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secrecy in springs, and its hidden dampness, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instrument and exhibited by a well through a hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, the saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its swimming in the waters of the Dead Sea: gullies, inadequate dams, leaking ship: its properties to purify, quench thirst and fire, nourish plants: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: it metamorphoses into mist, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in hard hydrants: its various forms in loughs and seas and gulfs and seas and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its robustness to glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: obedience to working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, when navigable, floating and graving docks: its potential to be gained from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) to the numerical, if not literal, inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in the lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded banana waters, stagnant pools for waning months. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster has curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Baptist. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring the Cathedral’s year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition to appear at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact clean water has on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking the lack of scientific writing. It started in 1983, when an April Fools’ Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consists of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" is used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
The Notices
References
The works cited
Further reading
External links

The World Water Data Sheet
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Chronology of Water Conflict: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of water sciences (USGS) . Portal on strategy, work and related publications of The World Bank on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water chemistry Archived on 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for Water and Steam Properties Archived 27 September 2022 at Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary