Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living things, as it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major factor in its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing dietary energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living things, chemical stability, worldwide abundance, and strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the surface temperature and pressure on Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, in its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can fall out in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for most of the water's volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (composed of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water continuously passes through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation and runoff and usually reaches the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been and still is an important source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for many materials, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and laundry. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Orðsifjafræði
The word water comes from Old German wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, water, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, 'water, *wod-or,'. Also related, via the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wāj. Saga
Á jörðinni
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless, odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": water as it is found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances and special measures are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal conditions on Earth. Ríki
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names of the compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature limits; it is the only known natural substance that does so while liquid. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause tremendous pressure, burst pipes, and crack rock. As a solid, it usually exhibits the behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or sea, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface that floats on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below and prevents it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important component of the thermal envelope that distributes heat throughout the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve significant interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transition
At one atmospheric pressure (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into vapor at its surface through evaporation (evaporation of the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on a cold surface while snowflakes are formed by the deposition of aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In freeze drying, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on its surface expands. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most materials, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is denser than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under a sufficiently thick volume of ice, resulting in subglacial waters. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can be in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). Since atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point drops by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be extended by a quarter to achieve the desired results. On the other hand, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce the cooking time by increasing the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. A threefold and important point
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are lines that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can be parallel. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, a triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be compressed or expanded gradually between gas-like and liquid-like densities; Its properties (which are quite different from those of the environment) are sensitive to density. For example, for appropriate pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, the solvent acts during mineralization, dissolution, and precipitation. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms a different crystal structure. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally, and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was hit by a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, leading to the formation of rigid oxygen atoms into which hydrogen atoms freely flowed. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. Details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that detect water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color is easy to see in a glass of tap water placed on a white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, where the higher intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental elastic absorption of water or aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental vibration can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below a depth of 1,000 meters (3,300 feet). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627) and common glass types (1.4). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarization
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic materials are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid form can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulphide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate by storing heat and transferring it between the ocean and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bond of water is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% can be attributed to electrostatic properties, while the remaining 10% are partly covalent. These relationships are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this feature. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – it is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, along with a solution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water only decreases by 1.8% in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (approximately 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that whales and humans use for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Feedback
Metals that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, transfer hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and liberating hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, which is a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the ground
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrology. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciation is glaciology, inland water is limnology, and oceanic distribution is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecological hydrology. The combined mass of water found on, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The estimated amount of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as seas, oceans, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or puddles. The majority of water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but significant extent ice, are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs at Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the constant exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water continuously moves through each of these areas in the water cycle, which consists of the following transport processes:

evaporation from the sea and other bodies of water into the air and emissions from plants and animals on land into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or sea. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and evaporation occurring over landmasses also contribute 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, 119 Tt per year over land, takes various forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface starts to rise. Dense water in the air can also refract sunlight to form rainbows. Water flow often accumulates across watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and valleys that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually a low-lying area, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. In contrast, droughts are prolonged periods of months or years when an area experiences a shortage of its water supply. This occurs when an area consistently receives below average rainfall either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs both as "stems" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total amount of fresh water globally, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and ecosystems. The length of time water remains in storage varies greatly: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing in the dry season and increasing in the wet season. A significant portion of the water supply in some areas consists of water produced from water stored in reservoirs, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, reserves decrease. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater abstraction, causing groundwater depletion. Sea and tides
Sea contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to freezing, instead of reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity of between 30 and 40%, is actually salt water.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of seas and estuaries and create oscillating currents called tidal currents. The change in tide that occurs at a given location is the result of the changing position of the moon and sun relative to the earth, together with the effects of the earth's rotation and local retrograde. The submerged seashore at low tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the tides. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many special properties that are important for the spread of life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolic and catabolism. In anabolic agents, water is removed from molecules (using energy that requires enzymatic reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g. starch, triglycerides and proteins to store fuel and information). In decomposition, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (e.g. glucose, fatty acids and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or for other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also a key factor in acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered to be neutral, with an ideal pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a value greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface water is full of life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive and do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, need to surface regularly to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a variety of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated water, including breathing tubes (see insect and molluscan siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in aquatic habitats, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Impact on human culture
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting increase in trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not safe for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called various other names than potable water or potable water and is sometimes called clean water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually follows government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in an acceptable microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal sewage) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures to access it arise from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set a Millennium Development Goal of halving by 2015 the percentage of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal was uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to a sustainable development goal of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of them extract more water annually than is recharged through the natural water cycle. The population not only affects the surface of freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also depletes groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for up to 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn is used for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, treat and return water and remove sewage. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing water concerns, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meats expand, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges are likely. An Agricultural Water Management Assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to assess whether the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture worldwide and mapped places suffering from water shortages. It revealed that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-scarce areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. An additional 1.6 billion live in water-scarce areas where a lack of investment in water or inadequate human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report stated that the food required in the future could be produced, but continued food production and environmental trends today would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industry and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—equivalent to a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is consumed in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. There has been significant environmental damage: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute value of the weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth of a cubic meter and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was required. Therefore, work was done to determine the exact mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the prescribed definition of a gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F) - a very reproducible temperature - the researchers chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest water density, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same elevation as the Celsius scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The proportion of the heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The American Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters of water per day for adult men and 2.7 liters for women. The exact amount depends on activity, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is taken in through food or drinks other than drinking straight water. Medical literature supports a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding extra needs due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary while exercising, which can cause them to develop water intoxication (overhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" does not seem to have any real basis in science. Studies have shown that increased water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with a meal, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 from the Food and Nutrition Board of the American Research Council read: "The usual standard for diverse individuals is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The latest Dietary Information Report of the US Research Council generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including dietary sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water for 9% of total of water of water for a total of 9% of water intake in the survey. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as particularly large amounts of fluid are lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that typically about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the rest coming from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated beverages). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and faeces, by sweating and exhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat stress, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide necessary electrolytes. The largest single (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a solvent, because it does not dissolve the reagents well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Oxygenated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchanger
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be available naturally from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective at transferring heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly with untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and the cooling fluid (used to transfer the waste heat to a body of water or to carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear industry, water can also be used as a neutron regulator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop reaction, and it is desirable to keep the core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire perspective
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water transfers heat from the fire. Using water on fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the risk of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot coal such as coal, charcoal or coking graphite, break down the gas and form the water. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating in the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion could have occurred due to a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when reacting with water that they can be a fire hazard. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are slipped through, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for fitness and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Waterfronts, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and look of running water to be soothing, and fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply systems and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old water pipes. Atmospheric hydroelectric generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, provided the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water are rainwater harvesting. Water may need purification for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microorganisms. Popular methods include sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microorganisms. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced methods exist, such as reverse osmosis. Deep sea desalination is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, delivery by tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to needy people free of charge. Reducing use by using drinking water (drinking water) only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to protect fresh water resources. Polluting water can be the biggest single abuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other forms of pollution, this does not enter into the traditional accounting of market costs, being thought of as an externality that the market cannot account for. Thus, other people pay the price for water pollution, while the profits of the private companies are not distributed back to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have a harmful effect on aquatic life if they accumulate in organisms and if they are not degradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in sewage treatment plants. Contaminated surface runoff is received through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions with substances dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous solution or using water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require a separate water source and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used for electricity production. Hydropower is electrical energy obtained by hydropower. Hydropower comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a cheap, non-polluting renewable energy source. The energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on the river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water that flows out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in engine cooling to prevent overheating or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, as well as being used as a solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes released dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and released coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many uses and uses a variety of treatment methods in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially AI, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require food to be immersed in water or its gaseous form, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Dissolved substances such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as atmospheric pressure, which in turn affects altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, the freezing point of water decreases by increasing the number of dissolved particles. Dissolved substances in water also affect water dynamics, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microorganisms in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water lower water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or manipulated using metabolic systems. It can have a significant impact on product quality, as well as playing a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (USA). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and conditions determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The visible water is quickly produced in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the scientists, "the discovery shows that water has dominated the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably also exists in abundance in other galaxies because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar materials. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's atmosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at surface
Moon's atmosphere: trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere – in trace amounts below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Cirrus disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below the polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a liquid subsurface ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported analysis of water molecules from NASA's lunar lithology map aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also the surfaces of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other associated Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And is also probably present on:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Alien form
Water and other volatiles probably make up much of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water, where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water, where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary life
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including atmospheric moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a thermal buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the environmental pressure determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, its water can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is politics that affects water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important factor in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to clean water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report published in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report says there is enough water for all. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, which could leave many donors working on overlapping agendas and recipient governments without the power to respond. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply "blueprints" that work in the developed world to locations and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is one example; the World Water Organization's review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The report for 2023 states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safe sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or severe water stress. Yet in the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have quadrupled, while floods in the mid-northern latitudes have increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related agreements include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. International Water Day takes place on March 22 and International Ocean Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of large lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, at least one month in water cities and costs at least one month a month. $307 billion a year. It called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered cleansing in most religions. Religions that involve ritual washing (purification) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or trauma) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (since it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, five prayers can be offered daily in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is unavailable (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (e.g. in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless persons, places and things, or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and saw it as the ylem or basic substance of the universe. Described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, Thales theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from the water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an ice cube - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily inhibitions associated with water and phlegm, as cold and damp. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The efficacy of water is manifested in its benefiting all things, and in occupying, without striving (to the contrary), the low place which all men dislike." Therefore (its way) is close to (the way of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are strong and strong there is nothing that can take precedence over it - because there is nothing (so effective) that it can be changed for." Guanzi in "Shui di" says in the chapter "Shui di". and to attribute the natural quality of the people of different Chinese provinces to the nature of local water resources
"Living water" is found in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical water that supposedly prevents aging. Art and activism
In the landmark modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism with 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous string of facts," but its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, till they descend in a calm stillness closing 'killing fin, faded flower water,'" is the most stagnant pool in the hymn. remarkable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary scholar Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of bringing to poetry all the jumble of knowledge that has accumulated in schoolbooks. The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of 'eternal, ever-changing life', and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel." The following is the hymn quoted in its entirety. What in water adored Bloom, water lover, water drawer, water bearer returning to the stage? Its universality: democratic equality and stability with its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean that Mercators warns: its illegal depth in the Sundam Canal in the Pacific Ocean over 8,000 surface visits and wave-free areas: over 8,000 waves. turning all points of its seabed: independence of its units: variability of the ocean: stillness of water level in calms: strength of water flow in night and spring tides: subsidence of destruction: its barrenness in the arctic, arctic and antarctic seas: its predominance of climate and trade marks over the land of the 3 globe: its undisputed dominion that extends in square meters over the whole area below the Tropic of Capricorn: the cosmopolitan stability of its primordial bed: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its gradual weight on the peninsula and its erosion: its peninsular deposits: and volume and density: undisturbed lagoons and highland tides: color changes in the fiery and temperate and cold regions: the consequences of devices in streams containing the inland waters and converging oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf current, ocean current, north and ocean current: artesian wells, eruption, current, eddies, quadrilaterals, water source, watershed, watershed, geysers, cataracts, eddies, gravel currents, flood, flood, cloud run: vast circular horizontal curve his: his concealment in springs and hidden or hygrometers Examples of the well at the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation dew: its simplicity of composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its upwelling in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistence in runs, ravines, in pure gorges, cools thirst and fire, nourishes vegetation: its infallibility as an ideology and model: its metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in stiff winds: its diversity in lochs and bays and bays and inlets and guts and lagoons and lagoons and lagoons and lagoons and tiles and fjords and tiles and fjords and beaches and fjords and fjords and lagoons and lagoons and hillsides and shores and the diversity of form in stiff rocks and vegetation. tidal estuaries and estuaries: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, ice floe: its convenience in working hydraulic mills, turbines, electric power, power plants, char factories, tanneries, barges: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and actuable from water level reachable from a dock actuable: level: underwater fauna and flora (smelling, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: everywhere where it is 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its discharge in swamps, infested fens, dead flower water in stagnant pools. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster led The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear in the cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark 10 years since access to water and sanitation was declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983 when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The hoax involved safety concerns about the material. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to Florida's water, such as Danny Towers' song "Florida Water" in 2023. See also
Explanations
Sources
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Site
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Gateway to World Bank policy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Hydrology and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary