Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is a major constituent of the Earth's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, which acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy or serve as organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are composed of water droplets and suspended ice, a solid state. When finely divided, ice crystals can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans containing the largest volume of water (about 96.5%). A small portion of water occurs as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice caps in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water is used by humans for agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water has been, and continues to be, the main source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance commodity trade (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat over seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Water, ice, and steam are widely used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is a good solvent for many substances, mineral and organic; as such, it is used in industrial processes and cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many other sports and pastimes, such as swimming, boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *woded-wod-or (root wood suffix', or Proto-Indo-European suffix water). It is also cognate, via an Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On earth
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a blue color. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is insoluble in nonpolar substances. This allows it to be a "living solvent": indeed, water as it is found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. country
Along with its oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within a certain temperature range; it's the only natural substance that can do that when it's liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes less dense due to freezing, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, the maximum density reaches 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, with a density in the liquid phase of 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, to a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause great pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of contracting and becoming more dense when it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at a temperature of 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lake would die during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat across the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it is possible to achieve significant interactions. Transition phase
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (equally) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at the surface by evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition in aerosol particles or ice cores. In the freeze drying process, the food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on the surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\ left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In some substances, the volume increases during melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur in sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep sea or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased four times to obtain the desired result. Conversely, pressure cookers can be used to reduce cooking time by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Point three and critical
In the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. It meets at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascal (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve terminates at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between densities like gas and liquid; its nature (which is very different from the surrounding water) is sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as a mild ecological solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms another crystalline structure. By 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and a few more predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered superionic ice phase, is found when water droplets are hit by shock waves that raise water pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperatures to thousands of degrees, resulting in a rigid structure of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical properties of liquid water are unknown; some theories suggest that the behavior is unusual because there are two liquid states. Taste and smell
Clean water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to smell. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that can evaluate the potability of water to avoid salty or foul water. Color and appearance
Clear water appears blue due to the absorption of light in these areas c. 600–800 nm. Color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O-H stretching vibration. The intensity of the visible color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with swimming pools when the light source of sunlight is reflected from the white box of the pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of lower water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solutions in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette should be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and not soluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the commonly used materials for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live hundreds of meters underwater, as far as sunlight can reach. Practically no sunlight can reach parts of the ocean less than 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atom is close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than other elements, so oxygen atoms have a partial negative charge while hydrogen atoms are positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter gives carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. These interactions between water and biomacromolecular subunits shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonds
Due to its polarity, water molecules in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to one another in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain the very high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at changing the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting water between the oceans and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds in water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to O–H covalent bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, approximately 90% is electrostatically related, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This trait is shared by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, with the resulting combination of solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only reduces its volume by 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km to 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, inland waters is limnology and ocean distribution is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found in, on, and on the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, streams, rivers, canals, ponds, or puddles. The majority of water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as ground water in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent ice, are also responsible for the transport of large amounts of sediment on Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geological record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, ground water, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these areas in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from seas and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from plants and land animals into the air. rain, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling on the earth or sea. runoff from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the sea is returned to the sea, but the wind carries water vapor on land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration that occurs on land also contributes 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow, and ice, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when a high density of water vapor hits a cold surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are lowest, before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Water flows often collect through watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide fertile soil and soil for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a period of months or years when the area lacks water supply. This occurs when an area receives consistently below average rainfall due to topography or due to location in latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, approximately 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow caps; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage is very variable: some aquifers contain water that has been stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake can change seasonally, decreasing during the dry season and increasing during the rainy season. A large part of the water supply for some areas consists of water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks will decrease. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, resulting in groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in several important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature down to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the main seas varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are cycles of local sea level rise and fall caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Waves cause changes in the water depth of oceans and estuaries and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. Tide changes produced at a given location are the result of changes in the position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth plus the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The shoreline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of tidal action. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has different properties that are important for the proliferation of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is an important solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and is an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy-requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (for example, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, this particular metabolic process cannot exist. Water is the basis for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. Acids, hydrogen ion (H+, ie, proton) donors, can be neutralized by bases, proton acceptors such as hydroxide ions (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 under ideal conditions. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a value greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface water is full of life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of many underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates display a variety of modifications for life in low-oxygen water including breathing tubes (see insect siphons and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrate life thrives in aquatic habitats, most of them are not specialized for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilizations historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, is located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptian society depended entirely on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC - c. 1300 BC) flourished along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber river in Italy. Large metropolises like Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong were successful because of their easy access by water and the expansion of trade. Islands with safe water harbors, like Singapore, have developed for similar reasons. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation, or by some other method. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is very technical and usually monitored by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine with impurities for bathing water). Water for bathing can be maintained in a pleasant microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet rays. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which is recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressure on access to that water is due to its uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic needs of agriculture and industry, and the growing population. Today, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set a Millennium Development Goal to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards these goals has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation can lead to; approximately five million people die each year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million children from dying from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these are more water each year than is replenished through the natural water cycle. These strains not only affect fresh water bodies like rivers and lakes, but also damage water resources. Human use
agriculture
The most important human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of the freshwater withdrawn is used for irrigation, but most of the water is "used" (used and not returned to the environment) to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify, and deliver water, and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic, and climate pressures have increased concerns about water issues, leading to competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-hungry meat consumption increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges will arise. An evaluation of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed a growing population. It assesses current water availability for agriculture on a global scale and maps locations suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas with physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. More than 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity prevents authorities from meeting water needs. The report found that it is possible to produce the food we need in the future, but the continuation of current food production and environmental trends will lead to a crisis in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is consumed in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth of a meter cube, and at the melting temperature of ice". For practical purposes, a metallic reference standard is needed, a thousand times larger, the kilogram. It is therefore assigned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the definition of a gram of water is determined at 0 °C (32 °F) -a very reproducible temperature-scientists chose to redefine the standard and to carry out measurements at the temperature of the most dense water, which was measured in time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mainly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) of water for adults and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or drinks other than drinking water directly. The medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than they need during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "people should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no basis in science. Studies show that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at meals, is associated with weight gain. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The usual standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The most recent dietary reference intake report by the US National Research Council is generally recommended, based on the average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal, 0.71 US gal, about 1% of the total water intake is 1% of water). total water intake in the survey. In particular, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), because a particularly large amount of liquid is lost during nursing. It is also noted that usually, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and soft drinks (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweat, and exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and the daily fluid requirement will also increase. Humans need water with some impurities. Common impurities include metals like copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The largest freshwater resource (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. washing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently become a research topic. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. Hot exchange
Water and steam are commonly used fluids for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, for cooling and heating. Cold water may be available naturally from lakes or seas. It is particularly effective in transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of evaporation. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and coolant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or carry it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest water user. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In many nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and moderator. This provides some passive safety measures, because removing water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction down. However, another method is preferred to stop the reaction and it is preferable to cover the nuclear core with water to ensure sufficient cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water carries heat from fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic solvents because many organic materials float in water and water tends to spread flammable liquids. The use of water in fire fighting must also take into account the danger of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or graphite coke, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of the explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case did not come from the fire brigade but from the reactor's own water cooling system. Steam explosions occur when the core is so hot that it causes water to vaporize. A hydrogen explosion may occur due to a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate very high heat when they react with water which can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth lime oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked through, they can catch fire because the contents react with water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for sports and exercise. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water calming, and fountains and other water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water at low temperatures as ice or crystals to form snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) for households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, tanks for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. An atmospheric water generator is under development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate places is a way to produce more water, if the aquifer can provide enough flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may include the removal of insoluble substances, soluble substances and harmful microbes. A popular method is filtering with sand which removes only the insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Bulk desalination of seawater is a more expensive solution for use in dry coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need at no cost. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Waste water can be one of the biggest uses of water; to the extent that the pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a source of waste, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, it is excluded from the standard accounting of market costs, which are considered externalities that cannot be applied by the market. Thus others pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local residents, who are victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can harm aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastes are usually treated in sewage treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use a lot of water, require special water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power plants. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually dams are built on rivers, creating artificial lakes behind them. The water that flows out of the lake is forced through a turbine that turns a generator. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works great, is relatively safe, and doesn't harm the environment. It is also used in engine cooling to prevent overheating, or prevent the blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Untreated discharge of water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses various purification techniques in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require food to be in water or a gas state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays a critical role in the field of food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as well as air pressure, which is also affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); In addition, increasing the amount of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only microbial growth affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and may be modified or treated using chemical ion exchange systems. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors also explain that this is a global average and that situational factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outflow of gas and dust. When the outflow of this material finally impacts on the surrounding gas, the shock wave is created to compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been common in the universe for almost all of its existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water may be abundant in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the model of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most of the other planetary systems have similar materials. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a lot of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% through the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of one of Europa's moons
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumferential disk: includes more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on Saturn's moon Enceladus, a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of the south pole of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, may be mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate an ocean of liquid water beneath the surface. Liquid water may exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. The Earth-Moon system: mainly ice layers on Earth and in the Moon's craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And chances are it's also in:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shape
Water and other volatiles may comprise much of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be ionic water whose molecules break up into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superionic water where the oxygen is crystallized, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary capabilities
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the solar system zone; if it is slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist at the same time will be less. The size of the Earth also plays a role: gravity can hold the atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have thin or non-existent atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the pressure of the environment, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If the planet is large enough, the water inside it can become dense even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics that affects water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and is an important element in many political conflicts. This causes health impacts and damages biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the last decade in almost all parts of the world, but an estimated one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, the demand for water will exceed the supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries who have access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report states that everyone can access water for everyone. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been implemented by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, which may result in many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without empowerment to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cite poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes for making decisions related to water management. Good water governance is primarily about knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply a 'blueprint' that can be used in developed countries to develop world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is an example; review by the Institute of International Water Management policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that a thorough and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment were rarely implemented. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from a preventable water-related disease, which is often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, provides a tool for sustainable water policy making. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to excessive consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. But over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is held on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered the era of "Bankrupt Water" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, at least 4 billion people experience water shortages every year, 3 billion every year. It calls for policies that are in line with reality rather than past norms. In culture
religion
Water is considered a purifier in many religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of other religious practices, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify people or areas (for example, in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places, and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher, Empedocles, saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or core of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, thought that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that water is shaped like an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors is associated with water and phlegm, as cold and damp. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. Dao De Jing translated by James Legge in 1891, "The highest excellence is like (like) water. The excellence of water is seen in the benefit of all, and in its place, without striving (on the contrary), a place that is not liked by all men. So (the path) is close to (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, but to attack strong and strong things nothing can be preferred - because there is nothing (to be effective) that can be changed." from people from various regions of China to the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of raising the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Living Water") and the Russian dichotomy of living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept related to magical water that is believed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", but phrases, like the subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the calm quiescence of the concluding 'pestilential fens, blurred flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon that is regarded as the waning moon. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieved "the improbable feat of raising into poetry all the weight of footling information that has been collected in school books." The literary motif of water is the theme of the novel which is "eternal life" and the song is the core of the motif in the novel. The following is a complete poem excerpt. Is it in the water that Bloom admires, the water lover, the water drawer, the water carrier that returns to the area? Universality: democratic equality and consistency in nature to find its own level: the width of the Mercator projection ocean: the depth that does not exist in the Sundam trench in the Pacific that exceeds 8,000 surface waves and wave waves: the sea: the independence of a unit: the variability of the state of the sea: hydrostatic calm in the calm: hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: subsidence after destruction: sterility in circumpolar escapes, Arctic and Antarctic: climatic and commercial significance: preponderance of dry land: 3. spread in a square league in all areas under the subequatorial tropics of Capricorn: multisecular stability of primitive basins: luteofulvous beds: capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: slow erosion of the peninsula and all the weight and volume of sediments: lagoons and tarn plateaus: color gradation in hot and temperate and frozen zones: the result of vehicles in continental lakes and rivers flowing into the ocean with tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf rivers, northern equatorial lines and south: violence in the sea earthquake, sea water, sea water source. freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curves: secrets in the source, and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic and hyemplmetrical instruments in horizontal and hyemplmetrical walls. saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: healing virtues: buoyancy in the water of the Dead Sea: continuous penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks in ships: nature does not thirst, cannot burn, cannot burn paradigms and paragons: metamorphosis as steam, fog, clouds, rain, ice, snow, hail: strength in rigid hydrants: various forms in loughs and gulfs and bays and gulfs and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal seas: icefloes: docility in the work of hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and graving: the potential that can be derived from the tide or the flow of water falling from level to level, flora and submarine: non-marine, flora and submarine. literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, blurred flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster organizes Water Values, at the Cathedral of St. The largest exhibition ever seen at the Cathedral, it features more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story included safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida based rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who do this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Read more
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to World Bank strategies, work and publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structures and science archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Idea, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary