Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and virtually colorless chemical. It is the basis of the world’s streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living things, acting as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or serve as an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance in the world, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water can be called a "universal solvent". Because the surface temperature and pressure are near the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosol in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water and ice, its solid state. When properly distributed, crystalline ice forms as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth’s surface, with oceans and seas making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Smaller fractions occur as groundwater (1.7%), on the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves constantly through the water cycle of evapotranspiration, runoff, precipitation, and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boats on oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, air, and steam are used for industrial and domestic cooling and heating. Water is an excellent solvent for many different substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and for cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, including swimming, boating, rowing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German waza, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *word-or, suffix form of root *wed-; (‘water’; ‘wet’). Also related, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), where English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. History of history
On the Earth
Properties of the
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simple hydrogen chalcogenide, is the most studied chemical compound and sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poorly nonpolar substances. This allows it to become the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common element that exists as solids, liquids, and gases are a normal part of nature. States of the
Along with oxidation, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat causes phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapour to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). Density obtained
Water is one of the few elements that expands and becomes less expensive as it cools within certain temperature ranges; It is the only known substance that naturally does so when it liquefies. Additionally, it is unusual in that it is very smooth when it freezes, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, when its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the water volume decreases. As it freezes into ice, water increases about 9%, reaching 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion causes tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming more dense as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, which floats on the liquid surface. This ice dehydrates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic life in lakes would die during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet’s oceans. Magnetism applied
Water is diamagnetic. Although interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can attain a notable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost forms in cold climates when snow forms by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In freeze-drying, a food is frozen and then kept at low pressure so the air on its surface is sublimated. The melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melt temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P. P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  − −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

whereas 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, volume increases as melting occurs, so melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature drops. In glaciers, pressure melting occurs under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, creating subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water remains in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 metres. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea. For example, when it reaches 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by one-fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, pressure cookers are used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and important points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three parts coexist. The triple point is located at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve terminates at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. it can be slowly compressed or expanded between gas- and liquid-like densities; its properties (quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures it is freely miscible with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically suitable solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth’s mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, occurs in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystalline structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several others predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered-cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised water pressure to several atmospheres and temperature to thousands of degrees, creating a structure of rigid oxygen atoms. Sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical composition of aqueous humidity are not understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and odor
Plain water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific senses in the mouth, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) can contain many dissolved substances which give it a distinctive taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed intelligence that allows them to sense drinkability to avoid water that is too salty or diluted. Color and texture
Pure water is visibly blue because the light is absorbed in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color is easily seen in a glass of tap-water set against a pure white background, in daylight. The principal absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. Apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This can also happen, for example, with a swimming pool where the light source is the sunlight reflected from the pool’s white tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower overtones in water means that glass cuvettes can be used with shorter path-lengths. To observe the fundamental stretch absorption spectrum of water or of an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for the cuvette windows with water solution. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can survive in water hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight reaches them. Practically no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean less than 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is smaller than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5° angle with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners are a pair of valence electrons that do not participate in the bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the individuals one day exceeds the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). But oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment and is called a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, including oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the fizz for carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides are soluble in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are insoluble in water, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a single water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other compounds like hydrogen sulfide. They also emphasize its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water effective in moderating Earth’s climate, by storing and transporting heat between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, 90% is estimated to be electrostatic, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for water’s high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, which is combined with a solution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
liquid water may be considered incompressible for most substances: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers just 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (roughly 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Possible reactivity
Metallic elements more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the world. The study of water distribution in hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the primary focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and over the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The surface water (total surface area) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquids can be found in bodies of water, such as seas, oceans, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on earth is ocean water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It is also available as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many aspects of the world. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure exerted by this groundwater influences rock faulting. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that forms volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, ice, are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on Earth. Deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geological record of earth history. Yearly cycle
The water cycle (scientifically called the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves constantly through each of the following regions of the water cycle which involve the following transfer processes:

evaporation from the oceans and other water bodies to the air and transpiration from land plants and animals to the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. water from the land reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean is returned to it, but the wind carries water vapor over land at the same rate as inland ocean runoff, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration on land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, amounting to 119 Tt per year over land, consists of various forms: mainly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is a small amount of water that condenses when the dense water meets a cold surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when surface temperatures begin to rise. Condensed water in the air also blocks sunlight to form rainbows. Runoff often accumulates over streams flowing into rivers. Through erosion, flooding shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for the creation of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surges. But dry seasons are long months or years when a region notices its water shortage. This occurs when a region experiences consistently below average precipitation either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
A water resource is a natural resource of water that can be useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water appears as both "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world’s total freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in permanent glacier and snow cover; 30 percent in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent is lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of water storage varies dramatically: some aquifers can store water for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake changes seasonally, falling in dry weather and rising in wet weather. A significant proportion of the water supply for some regions is water withdrawn from reservoirs in stock, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total irrigation water comes from unsustainable groundwater sources, leading to depletion of groundwater resources. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, and small amounts of other substances. The properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of the water in the main seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclic rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and create circulating currents called tidal streams. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Factors affecting life
From a biological perspective, water contains a wide variety of properties that are essential for the proliferation of life. It carries out this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that can allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which most of the body’s solvents are dissolved and as an integral part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that can be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not take place. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun’s energy to split water’s hydrogen from oxygen. In sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. Most living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun’s energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters are full of life. The first life forms appeared in water; nearly all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine animals, including dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are responsible for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are often the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine animals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to get out of the water periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications for survival in anoxic water including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in water, most have little or no aquatic breathing species. Effects on human civilization
Throughout history, civilization has flourished around rivers and great waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and tributaries flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was rebuilt on the banks of the Tiber in Italy. Major metropolitan areas such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are associated with their success, in part because of the ease of access by water and the expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have thrived for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called water or potable water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by other means. More than 660 million people lack access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by different names than potable or potable water, and is sometimes referred to as safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm unreacted chlorine with sewage for washing water). Washing water can be kept in satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (commonly referred to as sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-poor nations, which means that each person has access to less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recycled by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressure to access it comes from natural uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demand by agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goal to halve by 2015 the percentage of people without access to safe water and sanitation in the world. Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation can kill; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-borne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, comprising about a third of the world’s population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than they can recharge through their natural water cycle. The strain not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also pollutes groundwater. The human resources
Agricultural business
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for about 80 to 90 percent of total water consumption by humans. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawals are used for irrigation, but the vast majority of water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify, and transport water, and remove wastewater. However, growing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures are increasing water concerns, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, leading to perceptions of water scarcity. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumers eat water-thirsty meat, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries are likely, new water challenges are likely. The International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted an assessment of water management in agriculture in 2007 to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. He assessed the current availability of water for agriculture in the world and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-scarce regions, where there is not enough water to meet all of their needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic deprivation, where water investment or human capacity is limited, making it impossible for authorities to satisfy demand for water. The report suggests that it may be possible to meet future food demand, but that continued food production today and environmental trends could lead to problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, and industries and cities are finding ways to use water more efficiently. Water shortages can also occur due to water-intensive manufacturing. Cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, the water is being used in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Huge damage has been done to the environment: former Soviet diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton, for example, was responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a metre, and at the temperature at which ice melts". However, in order to do so, a metal reference standard, a thousand times more, was needed, in the form of the kilogram. Work was therefore commissioned to determine the mass of a liter of water. Although the decree definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and conduct their measurements at the temperature of the highest water density, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale for the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined according to the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of the water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are some heavy isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes contains less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily fluid intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The precise amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this can be through food or drinking something other than straight water. The medical literature favors low consumption, typically 1 liter of water per average man, without including extra requirements due to loss of fluids due to exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People drink more water than they need while exercising, which can lead to fluid problems (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular notion of "eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra fluid intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) during a meal, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake can help prevent constipation. A preliminary recommendation by the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board. National Research Council discussed water intake in 1945, writing: "An ordinary standard for different populations is 1 milliliter per calorie of food." Much of this quantity is found in prepared foods.” The latest U.S. National Research Council dietary reference intake report, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) water total for women, noting that water contained in food given about 19% of the total water intake in the survey is small especially, pregnant and nursing women need additional water to stay hydrated.The US Institute of Medicine recommends, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women should consume 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should have 3 liters (12 cups), because a specimen is larger Amount of water is lost during lactation Also noted is that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water (including caffeine). through urine and feces, and by exertion and heat, water loss increases as well as daily water requirements Contaminants such as copper and chemical compounds, or bleaches;
Transportation
Chemical methods
Water is used extensively in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and rarely as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and water-related compounds. In organic reactions, it is not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactions well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these properties are sometimes in demand. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Recently, water research has been of vital importance. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water effectively burns organic toxins. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used to exchange heat, because of its availability and high heat capacity, for cooling and heating. Cool water can even come from a lake or ocean. It is especially effective in transporting heat through vaporization and condensation on water due to its greater latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals found in industries such as steel and copper are readily oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed-loop between boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to convert waste heat into a water body or carried by evaporation to a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest consumers of water. In the nuclear power industry, water is also used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is cold and moderated. This provides something of a passive safety message, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are useful to stop a reaction and it is best to keep the nuclear core covered with water so as to ensure proper cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is inert, making it a good fire extinguisher. The water vapor carries the heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on a fire that contains oil and organic solvents because many organics float on water and the water can spread the flammable liquid. If you use water to fight fires you should also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which occur when water is used on extremely hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when water-reactive substances, such as certain metals or hot carbons like coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, corrode the water. The potential of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case came not from fire-fighting but from the reactor’s own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the superheated core caused water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred due to a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat in reaction with water that a fire can occur. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is mass produced often carried in paper bags. If these are soaked, they explode as the contents react with water. For entertainment
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. These include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and feel of running water soothing, and waterfalls and other water features are popular decorative elements. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which allows the water to remain at a low temperature as ice or crystallize into snow. Year industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply sources include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks, and water supply facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators develop. Drinking water is often collected in springs, drawn from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right place is therefore a possible way to increase production, assuming that the aquifers can provide the flow adequately. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water requires purity for human consumption. This involves the removal of insoluble materials, dissolved materials and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration which only removes insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of bulk seawater is an expensive solution that can be used in coastal dry climates. The distribution of drinking water is through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have free water distribution programs. Reducing consumption by using only potable (potable) water for human consumption is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, large amounts of seawater are used to flush toilets throughout the city to supplement the fresh water supply. Water pollution may be the biggest form of water misuse; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other forms of pollution, this does not enter standard accounting for market costs, which are thought of as externalities that the market cannot account for. So others pay the price of water pollution, while private firms’ profits are not redistributed to locals, who have suffered from this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and are exposed to harmful aquatic hazards if they accumulate and if they do not degrade. Municipal and industrial wastewater is treated in wastewater treatment plants. Sewage mitigation is being addressed through a variety of dewatering and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and remove substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Activities such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textiles, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often causing severe water pollution. Water is used to generate power. Hydroelectricity is electricity generated from hydropower. Hydroelectric power is generated from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cost-effective, eco-friendly renewable energy source. The energy comes from the motion of water. Typically, a dam is built on a river, and an artificial lake is created behind it. Water from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used for water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precision cutting. It is highly efficient, safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used to cool machinery to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes dissolved solutes (chemical pollution) and cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and various water treatment methods are used both in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses vast amounts of water, so AI expansion could "threaten global and national water security". Making foodstuffs
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require food to be immersed in water or its natural gas, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles within the field of food science. Salts such as salt and sugar in water affect the properties of water. Boiling and freezing points affect materials, as does air pressure, which in turn affects surface temperature. Water boils at low temperatures with the low air pressure that occurs at high elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activities which affect many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Salt in water interferes with the efficiency of the water—this is important to know because most bacterial growth is stunted when the water is stagnant. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Water hard is also an important resource in food processing and can be exchanged or treated using chemical ion exchange systems. It can greatly affect the quality of a product, and it also plays a role in their hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate of the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a 2010 report by the Water Footprint organization, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and is determined by the circumstances of the beef water supply. Medicinal uses
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization’s list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced by stellar formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the generated shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water evaporates rapidly in this hot dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a massive liquid cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery suggests that water has been present in the universe for nearly its entire history". Water has been observed in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies as well, since its elements, hydrogen, and oxygen, are among the most abundant in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and that of other star systems, many other planetary systems are likely to have similar features. Water vapour
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and a lot of water in Mexico's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Di atmosfɛs na di wɔl: ≈0.40% oba ful atmosfɛs, tipikli 1–4% na di sɔfa
Atmosphere of the Moon: in miniature
Atmosphere on Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Atmosphere of Jupiter: 0.0004% – in ice only; and that of its moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsea) . Atmosfɛs fɔ Yuranɔs – insay trays amɔnt dɛn we de dɔŋ 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not only cold stars and even detected in massive hot stars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: include those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water with water
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water can also be found in small amounts on Mars from time to time. Scientists believe there is liquid water in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10 kilometer thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below Enceladus’ south polar surface, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupita in mun Europa gɛt sɔfayz kwaliti dɛn we de sho se na sɔbsafayz likwid wata oshɔn. Liquid wata kin de bak na Jupita in mun Ganymede as layt we sandwich bitwin ay prɛshɔn ays ɛn rɔk. Water ice
Water is there as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice sheet on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rock NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Minerology Mapper aboard Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres on Earth
Jupiter's moons: Europa's face as well as that of Ganymede and Callisto
Satɔn: na di planɛt in ring sistɛm ɛn na di sɔfa ɛn mantle fɔ Taytan ɛn Ɛnsɛladɔs
Pluto–Charon system
Kɔmɛt ɛn ɔda tin dɛn we gɛt fɔ du wit Kuiper bɛlt ɛn Oort klawd
And it’s probably also on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys of Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water as the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper stil lεk supεrayכnik wata we di כksijεn de kristכlayz, bכt di haydrojεn ayכn dεm de fכt fri wan insay di כksijεn lat. Water and habitable planets
Di egzistens ɔf likwid wata, ɛn to smɔl pat in gas ɛn sɔlid fɔm dɛm, na di wɔl impɔtant fɔ mek layf de na di wɔl lɛk aw wi sabi am. Earth is in the habitable part of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist simultaneously would be unlikely. Di saiz we di wɔl gɛt de ple wan pat bak: di graviti we i gɛt de mek i ebul fɔ ol wan atmosfɛs, ivin di wata we de na di briz. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin atmospheres or none at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a constant surface temperature. Di we aw wata de na wan planɛt de dipen pan di prɛshɔn we di planɛt gɛt, we na di graviti we di planɛt gɛt de sho. If a planet is large enough, the water on it is solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure exerted by gravity, as was observed in exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Wata pɔlitiks na pɔlitiks we wata ɛn wata risɔs de afɛkt. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource worldwide and a critical element of many political conflicts. I de mek di wɛlbɔdi impak ɛn damej pan difrɛn difrɛn tin dɛn we gɛt layf. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but about a billion people still lack access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion have inadequate sanitation. Bɔt sɔm pipul dɛn we de wach di tin dɛn we de apin dɔn tɔk se bay 2025, i pas af pan di pipul dɛn na di wɔl go gɛt prɔblɛm wit wata. According to a report, published in November 2009, by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report said "water is available for everyone", but that access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not taken water sector donors as seriously as they have in education and health, which can leave many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments powerless. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for several types of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes used to make decisions related to water management. Good water governance is about identifying which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply a ‘blueprint’ that works in the developed world to the developing world place and context. The Mekong river is one example; a review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong river for water by the International Water Management Institute found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely conducted. They also found that Cambodia’s water policy was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to inadequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report estimates that two billion people (26% of the population) lack access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been attributed to overuse and pollution. According to the report, 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate through 2050. Since 2000, tropical flooding has quadrupled, while northern mid-latitude flooding has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these waters between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using sound water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day takes place on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations declared humanity entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have receded since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in landlocked countries per year, and drought costs $307 billion annually. He called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In the culture
Religion
Many religions view water as a purifying agent. Faiths associated with ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) is a central Sacrament of Christianity (called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, such as Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual baths with pure water are performed for the dead in many religions such as Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers are often performed after washing parts of the body using pure water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all purification rituals for a person or an area (e.g., in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for baptism, to bless people, places, and objects, or to prevent harm. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Visual philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles viewed water as one of the four ancient elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as ylem, or the essence of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is much more than water, came from the water. Thales, a monist, was more of a water creationist. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with scent, as it is cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is achieved when it benefits everything, and when it occupies, effortlessly (to the contrary), the lowest place that all men dislike." Hence (his way) is nearer (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing on earth softer and weaker than water, and yet attaching things stronger and stronger naturally takes precedence over it—because there is nothing (so effective) that it can be exchanged for." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter further elaborates on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing the natural qualities of the people in various Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept associated with magic water that supposedly prevents ageing. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the cold silence of the end 'pestilential fences, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon.' most remarkably in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieved "the improbable feat of raising to poetry all the clutter of footling information that has accumulated in school books." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "everlasting, everchanging life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. This is the song quoted in full. What in water, Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, watercarrier returning to the range, admired?It is universal: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature of finding its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific surface particles visiting in turn all points of its seaboard: independence of its units: variability of ocean states: its hydrostatic quiescence in cold: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its preponderance of 3 to 1 over the dry land of the globe: its indisputable hegemony extending in square leagues over all the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of moss precious metals: in slow erosions of peninsulas and downwardtending promontories: in alluvial deposits: in weight and volume and density: in imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns: in gradations of colors in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: in vehicular ramifications in continental lakecontinent streams and confluent oceanflowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in seaquakes, water spouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spots, ground swells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluge, cloudburst: in vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secret in spring, and lightning humidity, indicated by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well by the hole in the wall of Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on shipboard: its properties of cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: in strength in rigid hydrants: in various forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of sea: in solidity in glaciers, icebags, iceflows: tanries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and grave docks: its potential derived from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, the globe's population: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fences, faded flowing waters, unchanging pools of waning moon. Painter and activist Frederick Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring a year of the Cathedral’s contribution to our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornick, Kiki Smith, Pat Steyer, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members are Basia Island, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Bocco, Lila Doe, Stacey Levy, Charlotte Coty, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna McLeod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to highlight the impact of clean water on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but uncommon chemical name for water. This name has been used in many hoaxes and pranks that ridicule illiterate scientists. This began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The myth had to do with safety on the matter. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida based rappers as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Further a few rappers have composed full songs dedicated to Florida's water, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Notes of these
References
Works mentioned
For further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water science school (USGS) . Portal to The World Bank’s strategies, activities and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the weirdest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
The chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 on the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary