Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is the main component of rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known life forms, even if it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the earth's surface is relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on the earth's surface as solid, liquid and gas. It produces precipitation and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made up of stagnant water droplets and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice may precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the earth's surface, seas and oceans make up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (suspended from ice and liquid water in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. A large amount of water, ice and steam is used for cooling and heating in industries and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; thus, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many other sports and recreation, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source watar also from Old Saxon, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, High German wazzar, High German Wasser, vatn, pronounced 🐍🐌🐍🐍 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European (suffwix; from root *wowd). 'wet'). Also, via an Indo-European root, it is combined with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vạj. history
On Earth
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless, odorless, almost colorless, blue liquid. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes called the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "refiner of life": in fact, water found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal conditions on earth. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names of the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools through certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does so when wet. However, it is unusual in that it becomes much smaller as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (condenses) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water reaches 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When water freezes into ice, it expands by about 9% to 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and breaking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits normal contraction behavior and thickens as it cools. These unique thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface and floats on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms that live in the lakes will die in the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous movement is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the contact is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a strong contact. Phase shift
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water condenses or vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor by rising at its surface (rising across the liquid is known as boiling). There are also bumps and scratches on the surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snow is formed by precipitation on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice melts on its surface. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

that 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances increase in volume when melting, so melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick layers of snow, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase is much lower than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures deep in the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). Because atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. High altitude cooking takes longer than sea level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are bands that separate the solid from the vapor, the vapor from the liquid, and the liquid from the solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At high temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can compress or expand slowly between gas and liquid densities; its properties (which are completely different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to radiation. For example, at suitable pressure and temperature it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry, and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, decomposition, and dissolution. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of ice on Earth is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can form in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was hit by a shock wave that pushed the water pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperatures to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of solid oxygen atoms with free flowing hydrogen atoms. When squeezed between the layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The chemical properties of freshwater are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that may give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess water intake to avoid water that is too salty or hard. Color and appearance
Clear water due to light absorption in the area c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of sparkling water placed against a clean white background in sunlight. The main absorption bands responsible for the colors are based on the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color may also change from blue to green due to the presence of solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the high concentration of water-based pigments means that short-path-length glass tubes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a wavelength of about 25 μm is required. At the same time, the cuvette must be both transparent at around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-activated fundamental vibrations can be observed with a sample cell of 1 cm. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.621.4) and common species (6.4). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners have lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms will form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the twisted structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the flavor of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beer. In addition, many substances in living things, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules drive protein folding, DNA base binding, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they are insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain the extraordinary specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by absorbing and transferring heat. that between the ocean and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds are around 23 kJ/mol. Of this, 90% is electrostatically bonded, and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds account for the high surface tension and capillary action of water a narrow tube. This feature is shared by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - having an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-, with solvation of the hydronium and hydroxide ions formed. Electric heating and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by the diffusion of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered immiscible for most purposes: under normal conditions its viscosity varies from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1. Even in oceans with a depth of 4 km, which have a pressure of 400 atm, the water suffers only a 1.8 percent decrease in volume. The viscosity of water at 20 °C (68 °F) is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise, and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances through water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by whales and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, dissociate hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, which is a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanology. Ecological processes related to hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under and on the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of the world's water (total world water) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, spring, pond, or lake. Most of the water on earth is sea water. Water in the atmosphere exists in dry, liquid and vapor states. It also exists in water as groundwater. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fracture patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large proportion of the sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. Deposits of transported sediment form many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water always flows through each of these areas in the water cycle, which consists of the following transport processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water to the atmosphere and transport from land plants and animals to the atmosphere. precipitation, from water vapor that evaporates from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. Runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean is returned to it, but water vapor flows over land at the same rate as it flows into the ocean, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and convection over land masses also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with an average of 119 Tt per year over land, is of several types: mostly rain, snow, and ice, with some contribution of fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when excess water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are lowest, before sunrise and when the surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air may also refract sunlight to form rainbows. The water flow is usually concentrated on the water flowing into the rivers. Through erosion, the flow shapes the environment and creates river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the construction of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water and occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surges. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when an area experiences a shortage in water supply. This occurs when an area receives consistently below average rainfall due to its topography or location in terms of latitude. Water sources
Water resources are natural sources of water that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global fresh water, 69 percent is stored in permanent glaciers and snow; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time the water remains in the reservoir is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the lake's volume may change on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant portion of the water supply for some areas is derived from water that is stored in reservoirs, and as withdrawals are replenished, stocks are depleted. According to some estimates, 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from indiscriminate withdrawal of groundwater, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride, along with smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and increases in density as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. Water salinity in the large seas varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of sea and ocean waters and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The variation in tides produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The intertidal zone, a stretch of coastline that is submerged at high tides and exposed at low tides, is an ecologically important product of ocean tides. Effects on life
Biologically, water has many different properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many substances in the body break down and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (using the energy required for enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and fix water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutralization and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, or proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acidic pH values ​​are less than 7 while alkaline pH values ​​are greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface water is full of life. First life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of their lives on land. Plants such as crabs and crabs grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, whales and seals, need to surface from time to time to get air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show many modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic environment, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, which is called one of the cradles of civilization, was located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (3300 BC – 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises like Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access to water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In areas such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water has become a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Human drinking water is called drinking water or drinking water. Non-potable water may be consumed by filtration or distillation, or in many other ways. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking, but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing, is called by different names other than drinking or drinking water and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make drinking or bathing water safe. Its use is highly technical and is usually followed by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Water for bathing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced every year in the world. Freshwater is a renewable resource, which is replenished by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressures on its availability are due to uneven natural distribution in space and time, increasing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to reduce the percentage of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards that goal has been uneventful, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. about five million deaths occur annually due to waterborne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, accounting for about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of these annually withdraw more water than is replenished by their natural water cycles. Pollution not only affects surface freshwater bodies like rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater resources. People use it
Agriculture
The most important human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of the freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the majority of "potable" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developing countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify, and deliver water, and dispose of wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are raising concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies grow, water consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increase, new water problems may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. More than 1.6 billion people live in water-scarce areas, where a lack of water investment or a lack of human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet their water needs. The report stated that in the future there will be enough food production, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to try to increase productivity to meet the growing demands for food, while industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of intensive water products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, the water is being consumed in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has occurred: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the loss of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters and at the temperature of ice". However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard was needed, a thousand times heavier, the kilogram. Therefore, work was started to determine the exact weight of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the definition of a gram set at 0 °C (32 °F) - a very repeatable temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the highest temperature of water, which at the time was measured as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, set at exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 has been replaced by the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius scale, which was originally defined based on the boiling point (for 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (for 0 °C (32 °F))) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains smaller amounts of the isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The amount of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. River and lake water contains less heavy isotopes than sea water. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although an individual can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on the activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is taken in with food or other beverages rather than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors a lower intake, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, except for additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than they need during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that says "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" has no basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking more water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 fl oz; 17 fl oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the United States was: "A usual standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." The latest Dietary Reference Intake report by the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on average water intake from US research data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 gal) for women, 0.71% of total water intake. water is completely absent in the food). total water intake in the survey. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need to drink more fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men drink 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as large amounts of fluid are lost during nursing. It has also been shown that in general, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from water and drinks (including caffeine). Water leaves the body in many ways; with urine and faeces, with sweat and with the absorption of water vapor in the breath. With physical activity and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may increase. People need water with less impurity. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Certain salts are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest freshwater source (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these features are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently become a topic of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic pollutants. Temperature change
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat transfer, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may come naturally from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective at transferring heat through the vaporization and condensation of water because of its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and coolant (to transfer waste heat to a body of water or store it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop a reaction and it is preferred to cover the nuclear core with water to ensure adequate cooling. Thoughts of fire
Water has a high boiling point and is relatively inert, making it a fire-fighting liquid. The presence of water keeps the heat away from the fire. The use of water on fires involving oil and grease is dangerous because many organic materials float on top of the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which may occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or graphite coke, destroy the gas water. The power of similar explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not extinguish the fire but came from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the superheated core caused the water to vaporize. A hydrogen explosion may occur as a result of the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when they react with water that a fire hazard may develop. Alkaline earth oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked through, they may burn as their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, both recreational and recreational. Some of these are swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. Additionally, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and have fun. Many people find the sound and appearance of running water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some fish and other flora and fauna are kept in aquariums or lakes for display, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, snowshoeing, snowmobiling, or snowshoeing, which require the water to be at a low temperature or to crystallize as ice or snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection tanks, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including aquifers. Atmospheric water generators are in development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or drawn from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate locations is thus a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water are rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration, which removes only undissolved matter, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation serves all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Additional seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used in dry marine climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, by tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs that distribute free water to those in need. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets across the city to conserve fresh water resources. Contaminated water is the biggest cause of water misuse; To the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it wastes the resource, regardless of the polluter's benefit. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard calculation of market costs, which is considered an externality that the market cannot account for. Therefore, other people pay for water pollution, but the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local people who are the victims of this pollution. Chemicals ingested by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they do not biodegrade. Municipal and industrial sewage is usually treated at water treatment plants. Contaminated surface runoff reduction is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes involve reactions that involve the use of chemicals in water to dissolve, suspend solids in a water bath or use water to dissolve and remove substances, or wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical refining, bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often causing significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity derived from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river, behind which an artificial lake is formed. The water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water jetting and water cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Contamination includes discharged materials (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant (thermal corrosion). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques in both water supply and water disposal. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require cooking food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in food science. Additives such as salt and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by elevation. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kg of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Additives in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutions in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but it also affects food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food production and may be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in cleaning. Water hardness is classified according to the amount of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains more than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published in 2010 by the organization Water Footprint, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors also point out that this is a global trend and that environmental factors determine the amount of water used in meat production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Dispersion in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as another byproduct of star formation. Star formation is driven by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of matter eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. Visible water is quickly produced in this hot gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the world's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has dominated the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been found in interstellar clouds. Water may also be abundant in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems may have similar compositions. Water vapor
Water as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the total atmosphere, typically 1–4% on Earth's surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - with pressures below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deep layers
Atmospheres of exoplanets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: are not limited to cooler stars and are even found in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
There is liquid water on Earth and it covers 71% of its surface. Mars also sometimes has small amounts of liquid water. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in Saturn's moon Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of the south pole of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, may be mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface liquid ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rocks. Water ice
Water is like ice on:

 Mars: under regolith and in pots. Earth-Moon System: Mainly as ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA announced in September 2009 the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa's face as well as Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and the Kuiper belt and other related Oort cloud objects
And also about:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Foreign forms
Water and other elements may make up much of the inner structure of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules dissolve in a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions flow freely among the hydrogen ions. Water and the planet's environment
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist simultaneously would be much less likely. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a thermal buffer (greenhouse effect) that, when present in adequate amounts, helps maintain a constant surface temperature. The state of water on the planet depends on the pressure of the environment, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it may be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as seen in the planets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is the policy that affects water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource throughout the world and an important factor in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost every part of the world in recent decades, but nearly a billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face a weakening of the water base. A report, published in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing parts of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water rose from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report stated that "sufficient water for all" is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up as effectively by donors in the water sector as they are in education and health, where many donors may work on overlapping projects and recipient governments act without leverage. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture identified poor management as a cause of some types of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply 'maps' that work in the developed world to developed areas of the world. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that clear and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from easily preventable waterborne diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. People in cities (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity is described as endemic, due to excessive consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlands has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100 thousand deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions include: the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day is on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered the era of "water bankruptcy" because the great lakes have shrunk by more than 50% since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without water, 4 billion people a year are reduced by the cost of water. 307 billion dollars a year. She called for policies that correspond to reality instead of past norms. In culture
religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Beliefs that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or sprinkling) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). However, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, bathing in pure water is practiced for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is available (see Teyemmum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been blessed by a priest for baptism, blessing of people, places and things or as a means of removing evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is referred to as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as ylem, or the basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is thicker than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - an easily flowing cube compared to the earth. The theory of the four body fluids associates water with phlegm, as it is cold and wet. The classical element of water was one of the five elements (along with earth, fire, wood and metal) in traditional Chinese philosophy. Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest virtue is like (the) water. The lack of water appears in its favor above all else, and in occupying it, without trying (to the contrary), appears the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its path) is close to (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, yet to attack things that are hard and strong." in, there is nothing to prevent it - because there is nothing (so effective) to replace it." relates the natural characteristics of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of local water sources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are claimed to prevent aging. Arts and activities
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "one-dimensional series of facts" but rather its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, rise and move, gather and break, until they fall into the final calm of "evil fans, murky flower water, in the lowest cave". It is considered the most interesting passages in Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, it achieves "the improbable success of elevating the poem of all the jumble of foot information he collected in school books." The literary motif of water reflects the novel's theme of "eternal life, ever-changing," and the hymn marks the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn in its entirety. In the water Bloom, the water-lover, the water-drawer, the water-carrier who returns to order, admires what? Its universality: its democratic equality and the stability of its nature in the search for its level: its size in the Mercator projection ocean: its infinite depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific fat: 00000 particles visiting in turn all the points of its sea: the independence of its units: the variability of the sea conditions: its hydrostatic calmness in the calm: its hydrokinetic dryness in the calm and spring tides in: its post-destruction decline: its sterility in the peripheral, arctic and antarctic ice sheets: its dry climate on its 3rd land and its commercial aridity the world: its absolute hegemony extending square leagues across the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primary basin: its luteofulv bed: its capacity to decompose and store in the solution contains all the solvents including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its windows are the most valuable and the slowest. storage: its weight and volume and density: its instability in lakes and high tarns: color delay in cold and temperate regions and refrigerators: its vehicle chips in the continental lake rivers and streams of the oceans flowing together with their northern tributaries and their trans-oceanic streams. tremors, torrents, artesian wells, eruptions, floods, storms, fresh, tides, torrents, waterfalls, geysers, cataracts, tornadoes, torrents, floods, rains, cloudbursts: its vast expanse over the earth spring: shown by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and by the well shown by the hole in the wall at the gate of Ashtown, saturation of the air, pouring of dew: the simplicity of the composition her, two parts of hydrogen to one part of oxygen: her healing virtues: her ability to survive: her abundance of water always running in the sea, turbidity, perfect dams, splashing on board: her cleansing properties, quenching of thirst and fire, satiating plants: her inauthenticity as paradigm and paragon: her metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: her power in among the different types of solids are swamps and marshes and lakes and atolls and archipelagos and fjords and reefs and estuaries: its stability in ice, snow, ice: its reliability in the operation of hydraulic wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, power stations, springs, rivers, if mobile, floating basins and graves: its potential for compressed waves or reveals streams of water descending from level to level: its undersea fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, inhabitants of the world: in its spread that its feeble body forms 90: lake beds, sloughs, tired flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster, The Value of Water, at St. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is a technically correct name but rarely used. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes that make fun of scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was based on safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used as a catchphrase or adlib by many Florida rappers. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Note
Source
The tasks specified
More reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Data Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Science (USGS)
World Bank Strategy Portal, related work and publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 min, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report).
International Association for Water and Steam Properties Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary