Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is transparent, tasteless, odorless, and chemically almost clear. It is especially important for the earth's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, forms a strong intermolecular hydrogen bond, which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy or organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance worldwide, and its strong affinity for small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solute." Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure approach the third point of water, water on Earth exists as a solid, liquid, and gas. Precipitation forms rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of drops of water and ice, in their solid state. Crystalline ice, when finely divided, precipitates in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the mountains and caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water is continuously moved through the cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff. Water plays an important role in the world economy. Approximately 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in both saltwater and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major food source in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of play, such as swimming, pleasure boating, running, surfing, fishing, diving, ice skating, skiing, and skiing. Etymology
Water word from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch aqua, Old Germanic wazzar, Germanic Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-seu, form of root *nupti ('water', wet'). It is also related, through an Indo-European root, to the Greek ύδωρ (ýdor, from the Greek dωρ (hýdōr), whence the English hydro-), the Russian вода́ (vodá), the Irish uisce, and the Albanian wаj. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost without a blue color. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, a very refined chemical compound, is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be "dissolved of life": indeed, water, as it is found in nature, almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. United States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; H2O is also a liquid. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools in certain temperature ranges; It is the only known naturally occurring substance that makes a liquid. In addition, it is unusual because it is significantly less dense than it is congealed, although it is not unique. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (less dense) until the freezing point, at which the density of the liquid is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °F (39.16 °F), the volume of the water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion caused enormous pressure, burst pipes and cracked rocks. As a solid, it tends to contract and become denser as it cools. These unusual properties of chocolate have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating in liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes died during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve a significant interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes at 0°C (32 °F), and water boils or condenses as a vapor at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below its boiling point, water can change to vapor on its surface by evaporation (known as vaporization by boiling the liquid). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snow forms a deposit of aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze-dry process, the food is frozen and then stored under low pressure, so that the ice on its surface freezes. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of temperature with melting pressure is given by the Clause-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d*
              T
            
            
              d*
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      St
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f*
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\tfrac{dT}{dP}}={\tfrac{T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            St
          
        
      
    
    {\v_{\text{S}}}
  
 there are molar volumes of liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f*
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most bodies, the melting point increases as melting occurs, so the heat of melting increases with pressure. But because ice is less dense than water, the drying process is reduced. In mountains, melting pressure can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but the liquid/vapor transition has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at warm temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. Temperatures in hydrothermal vents can exceed 400 °F (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °F (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. High altitude kitchens cook longer than sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time should be increased by a quarter for the desired result. On the other hand, free time pressure can be used to reduce the cooking time by raising the heating temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
In the pressure/temperature phase (figure diagram), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at one point called the triple point, where all three levels can be at the same time. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This note is critical. At higher temperatures and pressures, liquid and vapor form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. Between gas-like and liquid-like densities it can be gradually compressed or expanded; its properties (which are very different from those of the ambient water) feel the density. For example, at appropriate pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including many organic compounds. This makes it useful in various applications including high-temperature electrochemical and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle it acts as a solvent in mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Increases in ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase forming crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, is possible in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. As of 2024, 20 have been experimentally confirmed and many more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, ice 18, the centered-cubic phase, superionic ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to an impact, which raised the pressure of the water to a million atmospheres and its temperature to a thousand degrees, resulting in a rigid structure of oxygen atoms in which the hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The chemical details of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. taste and smell
Pure water is usually said to be tasteless and odorless, although humans have their own sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. Water from common sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily preserved in a glass of water of sound placed against the white world, in the light. The main bands responsible for the color absorption are the overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a pool, when there is a light source, the sun reflects off the pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy using aqueous solutions, where the intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with shorter wavelengths should be used. To observe the fundamental absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 µm) a path length of about 25 µm is necessary. Likewise, the cuvette must be transparent at around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one material that is in common use for window treatments with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed in, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20°C (68°F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. molecular verticality
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two projection angles centered on the oxygen. In the other two corners there are only pairs of valence electrons that do not share the framework. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other molecular substances have a tetrahedral structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atom is partially positively charged. Together with the hook structure, this molecule gives an electric dipole moment and is placed in a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, which fizz in carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein valving, DNA base pairing, and other crucial life phenomena (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, soluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Consecutive framework
Because of its polarity, water molecules in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about a million times as strong as the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulphide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at Earth's air temperature, heating and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O-H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, the remaining 10% being partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of high water surface tensions and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is shared by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - the equilibrium is 2H2O H3O+ + OH−, in combination with a solution of hydronium and the resulting hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small ionic materials such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The combination requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered to be incompressible for many purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 in ordinary conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 pounds at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that is exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing. Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, repel hydrogen from water, forming hydroxide and dissolving hydrogen. At hot temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of water on land is hydrogeology, on the rocks it is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Economic processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found below and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1,386 cubic kilometers (333 million cubic kilometers). Liquid water in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, stream, pond, or pond. Most of the water on Earth is marine. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. There is also water in the aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms the many forms of sedimentary rocks that record Earth's geologic history. The water is released
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, including the atmosphere, ground water, surface water, ground water, and plants. Water is constantly moving through each region in the water cycle consisting of the following transport processes;

evaporation from the oceans and other bodies of water into the air, and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling onto the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry as much water vapor on land as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tit per year while evaporation and transpiration occur in terrestrial masses, also contributing another 72 Tit per year. Precipitation, at 119 per year on earth, takes several forms: mainly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution of fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water condensed when a high density of cold water vapor meets the surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest under the sun and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Water condensed in the air can also refract the sun to produce rainbows. Runoff water often collects as water flows into streams. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide fertile land and fields for establishing population centers. A flood is when a generally low-lying area of ​​land is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surges. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a lack of water supply. This happens when an area consistently receives below average precipitation either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example, as a source of water supply or irrigation water for drinking. Water occurs as both a "vein" and a "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, ground water or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in permanent mountains and snow caps; 30 percent of the earth is water; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, air, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage remains highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over a thousand years, but lake levels can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet ones. A substantial fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in reservoirs and when abstractions exceed recharge, the reservoirs decrease. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unusual land abstractions, causing groundwater depletion. Water and heat
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching a maximum density above the freezing point. The salinity of water in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, which is known for its high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is really a salty lake). the cyclic rise and fall of local sea levels from the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun act on the oceans. Changes in the depth of bodies of sea water and estuaries cause tides and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. Global warming at a given location is the result of changes in the positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, which is coupled with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local gravity. The coastal line, which is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Results in life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are critical to the proliferation of life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to act in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many body solutions dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through enzymatic energy-requiring chemical reactions) to make larger molecules (for example, starches, triglycerides, and proteins to store materials and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuels for industrial use or for other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the face of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to release glucose and oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize into hydrogen and carbon to capture energy from the sun and water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also a medium of neutrality and acid-base enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered to be neutral, with a pH (negative hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in its ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7, while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the earth are filled with life. The first forms of life appeared in the water; Almost all fish live only in water, there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Certain kinds of animals, such as amphibians, live partly in water and partly on land. Plants such as seaweed and algae grow in water and are the foundation of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is basically the food base of the ocean. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have plates for lungs, although some species of fish have both, such as lungs. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications that survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect and siphon molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, when invertebrate life evolves in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human culture
Culture historically flourished around rivers and major roads; Mesopotamia was situated between the rivers Tigris and Euphrates, which are called cradles; the ancient society of the Egyptians was entirely based on the Nile. Originally the Indus Valley culture (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) flowed down from the Himalayas along the Indus River and its tributaries. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of commerce. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean drinking water is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. But water which is not drinkable can be made drinkable by filtering or distilling, or by several other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water not suitable for drinking but not harmful to humans, where it is used for swimming or washing, has various names, in addition to potable or potable water, and sometimes it is called safe water or safe washing. Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to wash or drink safe water. Its use is highly technical and generally monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of chlorine not yet carried as pollutants for washing water). Water for washing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be returned to other uses. There are 2.3 billion people in countries with water scarcity, which means they each get less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 million cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal waste are produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, driven by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it result from a naturally uneven spatial and temporal distribution, increasing economic demands through agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of the world's population without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that end has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN set the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; some five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million infant deaths each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal waste still goes untreated into local streams and rivers. Some 50 countries, with almost a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of these extract more water each year than is recharged through natural water cycles. Labor not only affects surface fresh water bodies like rivers and lakes, but also depletes groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Human use of water is most substantial for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water is diverted for irrigation use, but most of the water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to crops) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often granted, especially in developed countries that have built aquifer systems to collect, purify and deliver water, and to remove waste. But with growing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for certain water resources, the concept of peak water is emerging. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry fuels increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to provide food for growing people. The current availability of water for agriculture was assessed on a global scale and divided by areas suffering from water scarcity. It has been found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. In addition, 1.6 billion people experience economic water scarcity in areas where a lack of water investment or insufficient human capacity means that authorities are unable to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce food in the future, but the continuation of this food production and environmental trends in many parts of the world would lead to crises. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will work to increase yields to meet growing food demand, while industries and cities use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by intensive water production. For example: cotton: 1 kg of cotton—equivalent to a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is consumed in countries that are already at risk of water shortages. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the removal of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to the cube of one hundredth of a meter and the melting temperature of ice." Although for use, a standard metal reference was required, it is thousands of kilograms heavier. So it was necessary to determine the mass of one liter of water more precisely. Despite the fact that the definition of a gram of water was determined at 0°C (32 °F) — a very reproducible temperature — the scientists wanted to define the rule and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which at the time was measured at 4°C (39°F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, which is exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it was based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale in the same increments as the Celsius scale of temperature, which was originally defined as 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The proportion of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the standard of water is defined in the language of the medium-ocean of the University of London water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although humans have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are ingested through food or beverages other than plain water. The medical literature favors a lower intake, about 1 liter of water for the average male, excluding extra requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to a liter of water per hour, but strength such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim to "drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp floz; 17 US oz) per hour of eating, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The usual standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest clean water intake report of the National Research Council is generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that water in the total water content provided in food is about 19%. Specifically, pregnant and lactating women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that on average men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 gal; US 0.63 gal) and breastfeeding women should have 3 liters (12 cups), since a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during nursing. It should also be noted that, on a regular basis, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from water and drinks (including caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and faeces, through sweat and the exhalation of water vapors in the breath. With work and heat exposure of the body, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may increase. Humans require a few dirty water. Common impurities are metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds, such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutions are welcome and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide electrolyte work. One of the largest (by volume) reserves of freshwater suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and water-related compounds. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, such properties are sometimes desired. An acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has been a recent research topic. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids for heat exchange, because of their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water is also available naturally from lakes or seas. It is particularly effective for transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water because of its high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as iron and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed-loop between the boiler, steam turbines and condenser), and coolant (used to exchange waste heat into a body of water or transport it by evaporation into a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants use the largest amount of water. In nuclear power, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are used to stop the reaction and it is preferred to keep the core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively slow, which makes it a good fire extinguishing fluid. Evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on oil fires and organic solutions because many organic materials float on top of water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in fire fighting must also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used for very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot coal such as coal, coal or graphite coke, destroy the water, producing water gas. The force of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, when the water involved in the accident did not originate from the ignited battery but from the reactor's own cooling water system. A steam explosion occurred when the final burnout of the core caused the water to flash into steam. A subsequent explosion can occur due to the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, most notably the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that it can increase the fire hazard. Alkaline earth quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If they are spilled, they can ignite as the water content reacts. The game
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these are swimming, waterskiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and water fountains and other structures are popular decorations. Some have fish and other flora and fauna inside the aquarium or tanks for show, fun, and company. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, rock climbing, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water to have a low temperature or to make ice or glass into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and waste services (including sewage treatment) to homes and businesses. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater measuring cisterns, water networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes with old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are in development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, drawn from artificial borings in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more cisterns in suitable locations is a way to produce more water if the aquifers can supply sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can involve undissolved substances, dissolved substances, and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation does all three. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid maritime climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, either by delivery of bottles or as distributed water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need at no cost. Another option is to reduce the use of water by using it in a potable (potable) way for human consumption. In some cities such as Hong Kong, sea water is widely used for urban sewage flushing to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water can be one of the biggest abuses of water; to the extent that pollution limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this standard does not enter into the accounting of trade costs, as external concepts for which the market cannot account. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the private profits of local residents who are victims of this pollution are not reduced. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in rivers and can have detrimental effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial waste water is typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is directed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash things or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulping, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source and often causing significant water contamination. And water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is the electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water driven by turbines connected to a water generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Power is supplied by the movement of water. Typically, a mother is constructed in a river, which is then subducted. The water flowing from the lake is forced by turbines to turn generators. Water rust is water pressure and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for accurate cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in refrigerating machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent burning blades. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes dissolved solids (chemical pollution) and cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various purification techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a large amount of water, so the spread of AI can "threaten global national security and water." food processing
Boiling, smoking, and baking are popular cooking methods that often require immersing the food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. As the salts and sugars found in the water dissolve, they affect the physical properties of the water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C. similarly the number of dissolved particles increases the freezing point of water. Dissolved in water also affects water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved in water of lower water activity - this is important to know because bacterial growth mostly stops at low water activity levels. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of foods. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of work and play a role in healing. The hardness of water is indicated according to the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is considered soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 gal imp; 4.0×10^3 gal) of water; however, the authors also state that global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. The use of medicine
Water injection is on the list of essential drugs in the World Health Organization. Distribution in nature
Into the universe
The waters of the universe produce a lot to enable star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by intense gas and outer dust. When this outflow of material finally impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. Water observed in this dense hot vapor is quickly produced. On July 22, 2011, a report revealed the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" located around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has prevailed in the universe for almost the entire existence". Water has been found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the solar system and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. water vapor
Water is present as vapor in it;

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Friday's atmosphere: 0.001%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% in the full atmosphere, about 1-4% at the surface
The atmosphere of the moon: in trace amounts
Tuesday's atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in ice only; and his moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione. The atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - in the deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, VESPA-12b, VESPA-17b, VESPA-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and are also detected in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar orbit: including more than half of the stars T Tauri such as AA Tauri and TW Hydra, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Major and S Perseus. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is sometimes present even in small amounts on Mars. Physicists think that there is liquid water on Saturn's moon Enceladus, a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate subsurface liquid ocean water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between the high-pressure ice and rock sandwich. Ice water
Water is present as ice;

 Mars: sub regolith and poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and molar rocks NASA detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moon Moon: The surface of Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it is probable even at present;

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune, and water in the deeper layers may exist in the form of ionic water in which the molecules descend into a mess of hydrogen and oxygen, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattices. Water and the habitability of the planet
The existence of liquid water, less gaseous and its solid forms, on Earth are vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is a little closer or further away from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time are much less likely. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (conservation effect) that helps keep the surface temperature relatively stable when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If the planet is large enough, the water on it can be solid even at hot temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is the politics of water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes an impact on health and loss of biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be vulnerable to groundwater. The report, published in November 2009, indicates that by 2030, in some developing countries of the world, the demand for water will exceed the supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to a safe source of water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there is enough water for all", but access to it is poor and that it was hindered by corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been as effectively adopted by donors in the water sector as they have in education and health, leaving potential donors in overlapping projects and recipient governments without the ability to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and economic context. Mistakes are sometimes made in trying to apply the "blueprints" that work in the developing world to developing world locations and contexts. One example is the Mekong River; A review by the International Water Management Institute in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found detailed and transparent cost analyzes and environmental impact assessments rarely undertaken. We also discovered that Cambodia's water extraction is much more complicated than it needs to be. In 2004, the charity WaterAid UK reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safe sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to excess and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has grown by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water First, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day falls on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered a "water crisis" because more than 50% of the great lakes have disappeared since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since the 1970s, 75% of the world's population lives in water-scarce regions, 4 billion people experience water shortages at least one month a year, and droughts cost $307 billion a year. This is called for policies that are more in line with reality than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered cleansing in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or immersion) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is offered to the deceased in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed at most, after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless the water weighs (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water sanctified by a priest for baptism, for the blessing of persons, places and things, or for warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water is regarded as the source of life. Philosophy
Empedocles, the ancient Greek philosopher, saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and he saw it as yles, or the fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle betrayed the astrologer and engineer, thought that the earth, which is denser than water, had emerged from water. Thales the monist also believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cubic shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily fluids with phlegm water, viz. cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role-model. In his 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing, James Legge states, "The highest excellence is like water. The excellence of water excels in all things, and in seizing, without effort (on the contrary), it is humble, which all hate. Therefore it is close to the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet in attacking things firm and strong there is nothing that can precede - for there is nothing (only) for which it can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" chapter further elaborates on the riddle of the people of water and nature, predicting the natural regions of water and predicting the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a tool for raising the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth is said to represent a related concept of magical water forbidding. Art and industry
In the notable modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as "the hymn of water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, harvest and swell, gather and break, until they sink into the quiet quiescence of the concluding "pestilential marshes, a flower of water flows into stagnant pools in the waning moon. feat of erecting poetry all the clutter of footing information that has accumulated in schoolbooks. The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life," and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following hymn is quoted in full. What in the water does Flosculus, the aquarist, a draft of water, a carrier returning to the breadth, wonder? Its universality: the equality of the people and the constancy of nature in seeking its level: the waste in the ocean of the projection of the Merchant: its depth plumed in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 miles: the restlessness of its equality and the constancy of its nature in seeking its level: the waste in the ocean of the projection of the Merchant: the depth of it plumed in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 miles: the restlessness of its waves and the surface of the sea: the variety of changeability; of the sea: hydrostatic calm in the calm: hydrokinetic turbidity in the neap and spring tides: subsidence after devastation: sterility in the circumpolar, arctic and antarctic ice: climatic and commercial significance: prevailing 3 to 1 over the arid globe: undisputed control of stability in square leagues over all tropical regions. primitive lip: yellowish bed: capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metal: slow erosion of peninsulas and promontory slopes: alluvial deposits: weight and volubility and density: its imperturbability in pools and plains branches: its gradation of colors in torrid and torrid and continental zones; and the confluence of rivers flowing with their tributaries and transoceanic: gushes, north and south equatorial courses: violence in seas, waters of waters, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, gushes, drips, spas, ramparts, waters, waters of waters, geysers, waterfalls, gushes, floods, whirlpools, gushes, gushes, floods, gushes; ahorizontal circumterrestrial: secretion of springs, latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and through a well in the wall at the gate of Ashtown, saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: medicinal virtues: levity of running in waters. gulls, inadequate for their mothers, I flow out in the boat; properties for purification, thirst and fire, feeds vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapor, fog, cloud, rain, frost, snow, hail: strength in rigid hydrants: various forms in masses and bays and bays and bays and bays and various forms and sounds and fjords and mines and estuaries and arms of the sea: solidity in rocks, icebergs, ice floes: ductility in the operation of hydraulic mills, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, mills, tanneries, scutchmills: utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and steep flocks from docks; of the plains: its underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobic) in number, if not literally, of the group's inhabitants: its ubiquity constituting 90% of the human body: the noxious effluents in lacustrine swamps, pestilential swamps, in stagnant waters, stagnant ponds in the waning moon. Painter and activist Frederick Foster created The Value of Water, at St. John's Cathedral in New York City, which has been fixed for years by the cathedral's dependence on our water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, a collective of ecological artists who use water as a substrate or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is technically the correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name is used in a series of jokes and jokes that play on scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. A false story consists of a certain substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as some kind of catchphrase or something. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask's Snow God. To go even further, some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to the waters in Florida, like the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

Water data page of the world
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water Science School (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's policy, work and associated publications on water resources
America's Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary