Water is an inorganic substance with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, sweet, odorless, and virtually colorless chemical compound. It is the main constituent of the Earth’s streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which contributes significantly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all recognized forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or contain a small amount of organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all living organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its high porosity relative to its small molecular mass, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth’s temperature and pressure are so close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water and ice droplets, their solid state. When properly divided, crystalline ice may precipitate in the form of snow. The gas state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth’s surface, with oceans and seas accounting for the majority of the water volume (approximately 96.5%). Trace amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as steam, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the hydrological cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, sedimentation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean.Water plays an important role in the global economy.About 70% of freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture.Salt and watershed fishing clean has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world’s protein Most of the long-distance trade (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by boat through oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals are used for industrial and domestic cooling Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of materials, minerals and natural products, as such, is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and bathing Water, ice, and snow are also important for many sports and other forms of entertainment, e.g such as swimming, pleasure boating, boating, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing Etymology The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also Old Saxon source). watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffixed form of root *wed- ('water'; 'water' Also related, through Indo-European root,). and Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë
On Earth
The property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a slight blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes referred to as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is not bad at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "yeast of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and various steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. The nations
In addition to oxides, water is one of two official names for the chemical element H2O; and is the aqueous phase of H2O. Two other common states of a liquid substance are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing temperature can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), condensation (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to liquid), sublimation (ice to vapor) and condensation (vapor to ice). The density of porosity
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and contracts when cooled at a certain temperature; it is the only known naturally occurring constituent that contains water. In addition, it is unusual in that it shrinks dramatically when it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), the water expands (condenses) until it reaches the freezing point, where at its weight in the liquid phase it is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water is cooled to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the viscosity of water decreases. As it freezes to ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause extremely high pressures, pipe bursts and rock fractures. As a solid, it exhibits the typical behavior of contraction and densification as it cools. These unusual thermal events have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or lake, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. The ice blocks the water below, preventing solid formation. Without this protection, most marine aquatic life would perish during the summer. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet’s oceans. The magnetic field
Water is a dimagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, even superconducting magnetization can achieve a noticeable interaction. Changes in steps
At one atmosphere pressure (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). But even below the boiling point, the liquid can change to vapor on its surface during evaporation (condensation in any liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, snow is deposited on cold surfaces and snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol fraction or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface evaporates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display mode {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left (v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

of 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\display mode v_{\document{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display mode v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid components, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\how to display L_{\document{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most materials, viscosity increases as melting occurs, so melting temperature increases with pressure. But because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In the tropics, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice masses, resulting in subglacial oceans. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in the liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In liquid gas exhausts, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As the atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C per 274 m. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, the water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical issues
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet in a single space called the triple space, where all three levels can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, a triple factor was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/vapor phase flow ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gaseous and liquid densities; its properties (which differ significantly from those of adjacent waters) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth’s mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, melting and cooling. Ice and water levels
The typical ice system on the Earth’s surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can exist in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally proven and several more have been theoretically predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, a piece of ice located in the middle of a face-cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a water droplet experienced shock waves that raised water pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in atomic structure of solid oxygen with free-flowing hydrogen atoms. When inserted between graphene layers, ice forms a square lattice. The chemical composition of liquid water is not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two fluid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from conventional sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can give it a distinctive taste and odor. Humans and other animals have evolved senses that allow them to evaluate water’s ability to avoid saline or corrosive water. Color and appearance
Clear water appears blue due to absorption of light in area c. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water set against a pure white background, in the sunlight. The main absorption lines responsible for the colors are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer’s law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool where the light source is reflected sunlight from the white tiles of the pool. Naturally, the color may also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions where the high intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with shorter path lengths may be used. To observe the basic stretching absorption spectra of a liquid or liquid solution in the vicinity of 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a commonly used material in cuvette windows containing aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, 1 cm sample cells. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in waters up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunshine reaches the oceanic regions below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass species (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity. In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners there are only pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between pairs alone is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). But oxygen has fewer electrons than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partially negative charge and the hydrogen atoms have a partial charge. In addition to the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophobic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are water soluble. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules produce protein folding, DNA base pairings, and other biologically important properties (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are anhydrous, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its crystallinity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulphide. They also describe its extraordinary specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water effective in stabilizing the Earth’s climate, by storing heat and transferring it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds are at 23 kJ/mol (compared to covalent O–H bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is electrostatic, and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These sediments are responsible for the high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move upward in a narrow tube against gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydroxides –there is the equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with the concentration of hydronium ions and the resulting hydroxide. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of electrolyte such as common salt. Liquid water can be separated into hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the random process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical objects
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in lakes at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water experiences only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans to communicate and sense the environment (sonar). The reactivity. Metallic elements that are more electrically charged than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the flow, distribution, and quality of water worldwide. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes and hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The concentrated mass of water located on the planet, below and above the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. The earth’s estimated water reserves (total global water supply) are 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as lakes, ponds, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or reservoirs. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It is also present as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects the collapse process. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. At the Earth’s surface, water is important in both natural and artificial weather processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs at the earth’s surface. Deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of the Earth’s history. Water management
The hydrological cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within a watershed, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these components in the hydraulic cycle with the following conveyance mechanisms:

evaporation from oceans and other waters into the atmosphere and evaporation from land plants and animals back to the atmosphere. rain, from water vapor that evaporates from the air and falls on land or sea. water flowing from the land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor to land at the same rate as ocean currents, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and evaporation occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, has several characteristics: mainly rain, sleet, and snow, with some effect from fog and dew. Dew is the small droplets of water that evaporate when strong water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew typically forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, before sunrise and when global temperatures begin to rise. Air-condensed water may also convert sunlight into rainbows. Runoff water tends to accumulate on the watersheds of rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment and creates river valleys and valleys that provide rich soil and level ground to establish habitat. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low, is covered by water which occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a storm surges. Drought, on the other hand, is a prolonged period of months or years in which a community observes water scarcity. This occurs when an area experiences consistently below-average rainfall either because of topography or latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or water for irrigation. Water exists as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as oceans, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world’s total freshwater, 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in the oceans, rivers, air, and ecosystems. The length to which water remains stored is highly variable: some aquifers contain water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake may fluctuate seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. A substantial portion of the water supply in some areas consists of water drawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed replenishment, stocks deplete. By some estimates, 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Ocean water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus small amounts of other elements. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (approximately −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, instead of reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the Great Lakes varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its very high salinity of between 30 and 40%, is truly a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of ocean and ocean waters and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The variability of the tides generated at a given location is due to changes in the positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local hydrometer measurements. The part of the coastline that dips down at high tide and is exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an ecologically important source of seawater. Health effects
From a biological standpoint, water has many unique properties that are crucial to the proliferation of life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to react in ultimate ways to enable replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital as a solvent in which many solutes in the body dissolve and as an essential component in many metabolic processes. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via the energy required by enzyme chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form small molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used in fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, these various metabolic processes could not take place. Water is important for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate liquid hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (introduced in air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and turn hydrogen and carbon oxide to capture solar energy and fix water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton donor), can be neutralized with a base, which allows protons such as hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is assumed to be neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 under ideal conditions. Acids have pH values less than 7 and bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic organisms
The surface waters are full of life. The first living things appeared in the water; almost all fish are exclusively aquatic, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their life in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and underpin some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the basis of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must get oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have lungs instead of lungs, although some species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to get off the water periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit numerous adaptations to survive in anoxic waters including respiratory tracts (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). But because invertebrate life evolved in aquatic habitats, most have little or no diving skills. Effects of civilization
Civilization has historically developed around major rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called beds of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) flourished along the Indus River and the rivers that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Megacities like Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access via water and the resulting commercial expansion. Islands with freshwater beaches, like Singapore, thrive for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is most scarce, access to safe drinking water was and is a vital human development priority. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable or potable water. Nonpotable water may be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a range of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but safe for humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by different names than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes referred to as pure water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucus irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine not yet associated with bathing water contaminants). Wash water may be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions by the use of disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mainly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people living in countries with water scarcity, which means that each individual has access to less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft). 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is generated worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, which recycles the natural water cycle, but pressure on access is due to uneven spreading of environment in space and time, increasing economic demand for agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 half of the world’s population without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by waterborne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world’s population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is replenished through their natural water cycles. This species not only affects fresh surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also damages groundwater resources. The use of human beings
Agriculture
The largest water use by humans is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all water used by humans. In the United States, 42% of the freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collection, treatment, and delivery of water, and removal of wastewater. However, increasing economic, human and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, resulting in a peak water hypothesis. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges may arise. An agricultural water management assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Agency in Sri Lanka to see if the country has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed current water availability for agriculture on a global scale and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion people, live in areas of water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where a lack of access to water or inadequate human capacity makes it difficult for authorities to satisfy water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing today’s food production and environmental trends would lead to problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industry and cities will have to find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by water-intensive production. Cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, this water is used in areas already at risk of water scarcity. Massive environmental damage has occurred: for example, the diversion of water from the former Soviet Union’s Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production largely contributed to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of the volume of pure water equivalent to a cube of one hundredth of a metre, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a reference standard of iron was required, a thousand times more, kilograms. The task was therefore directed to determine accurately the volume of one liter of water. While the recommended definition of a gram showed water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists decided to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the maximum water temperature, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple water point, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann transformation instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural waters consist mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small numbers of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is much smaller, but they still affect water properties. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body consists, on average, of 50–60% water, depending on age, sex and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. Department of Agriculture. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of these are ingested through food or beverages other than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors minimal fluid intake, typically one liter of water for the average man, excluding special needs due to fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can produce 0.8 to 1 liter of fluid per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk for hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water daily" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra fluid intake, especially up to 500 ml (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) during a meal, was associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps in preventing constipation. The first recommendation on water intake in 1945 by the U.S. Food and Nutrition Administration. The National Research Council read: "The normal standard for the general population is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest U.S. dietary reference intake report. The National Research Council overall recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that dietary water intake is approx 19% of the total water intake in the study. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need more fluids to stay hydrated. The US National Institutes of Health reports that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should receive an additional 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should receive 3 liters (12 cups), since particularly large amounts of fluid are lost during breastfeeding. Another common note is that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, and the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in multiple ways; through urine and feces, through perspiration, and the exhalation of water vapor in the breath. As you generate physical energy and heat, water loss will increase and daily water requirements may increase. People need water with low levels of contaminants. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical agents such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Certain soluble ingredients are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide needed electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Bathing
Transportation
The use of medicines
Water is frequently used in chemical reactions as a solvent or solvent and less frequently as a solvent or solvent. In inorganic systems, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other solar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is rarely used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve solvents well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these resources are sometimes needed. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water has been observed. Recently supercritical water has been a topic of research. Oxygen-rich supercritical water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Fresh water may also be obtained naturally from the lake or ocean. It is particularly efficient at transferring heat through evaporation and condensation of water because of its large latent heat of vaporization. The problem is that metals commonly found in industry like steel and copper are readily oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and a coolant (used to replace waste heat with water or carry it by evaporation to a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest consumers of water. In nuclear power plants, water can also be used as a nuclear stabilizer. In most nuclear reactors, the water is cooling and moderate. This provides a passive safety feature, as dewatering the reactor also slows down the nuclear process. However, other methods prefer to stop the reaction and it is advisable to keep the nucleus core covered with water in order to ensure adequate cooling. Thinking about fire
Water has a high heat of evaporation and low reactivity, making it an ideal firefighting liquid. The evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving fuels and organic solvents because many organic substances float on water and water tends to spread hot water. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the risk of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosion, when materials in contact with water, such as some metals or combustible carbon like coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose water. The force of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case came not from firefighting but from the reactor’s own cooling water system. Steam explosions occurred when the extreme heat of the core caused water to flash into steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction between the gas and the hot zirconium. Certain metal oxides, principally those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat in contact with water that a fire hazard may result. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are immersed, they may catch fire as the contents react with water. Recreational activities
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are places where people go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of running water soothing, and fountains and other cascading structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals inside amusement parks or ponds for display, fun and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at low temperatures either as ice or as it has crystallized and frozen. Water Industries
Water plants provide drinking water and wastewater (including wastewater treatment) services to households and industries. Water supply points include water wells, rainwater harvesting ponds, aqueducts, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipelines including old water mains. Atmospheric hydroelectric systems are in development. Drinking water is usually collected at springs, taken from natural sources (springs) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Thus the construction of more wells at sufficient locations is a feasible way of producing more water, assuming that the runoff can provide sufficient runoff. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This may involve the removal of undissolved, dissolved material and harmful bacteria. Popular methods are sand filtration that only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of large amounts of seawater is a very expensive solution used in a dry coastal environment. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to provide free water to those in need. Reducing consumption by only using potable (potable) water for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city in order to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution may be the single biggest waste of water; to the extent that the pollutant limits the alternative use of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into standard calculations for market costs, being thought of as externalities that the market cannot account for. Thus other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, which is affected by this pollution. Chemicals consumed by humans often end up in water bodies and may have an impact on aquatic life if they accumulate in biomass and if they are not biodegraded. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reduction of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of preventive and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on mixtures that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous slurries or using water to dissolve and remove materials, or to wash materials or cleaning equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical milling, pulp processing, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling of power plants use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydropower is energy obtained from hydropower. Hydropower comes from water driving a hydro turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is an inexpensive, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by water movement. Typically a dam is built on a river, creating a natural lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used for hydraulic pumping and hydraulic cutting. High pressure water guns are used for fine cutting. It is highly effective, safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent cutting blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and devices, such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged leachates (chemical pollution) and discharged leachate (thermal pollution). Industry requires fresh water for many purposes and uses various techniques for improving water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence, uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and baking are common cooking methods that often require immersing food in liquid or in its gaseous, steamy state. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Solvents such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of the water. Boiling and freezing points are affected by filters, as well as atmospheric pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures when lower atmospheric pressure exists at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles decreases the porosity of water. Solutes in water also affect the hydration process which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microorganisms in food. The hydraulic conductivity may be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solvents in water reduce hydrolysis—this is important to know because most bacterial growth is limited to low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food safety. Water hardness is also an important factor in food production and may be modified or improved using chemical ion exchange system. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, as well as play a major role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified according to the amount of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a 2010 report by Water Footprint, 1 kg of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and contextual factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical applications
Injection fluids are on the World Health Organization’s list of essential medicines. Expenditure in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe’s water is produced as a result of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong external wind of gas and dust. When this emission of material eventually overwhelms the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compresses and heats the gas. The observed water is formed rapidly in this dense thermal gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of an enormous cloud of water vapor containing "140 billion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the finding suggests that water has been pervasive in space for nearly all of time". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, for its components, hydrogen, and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the effects of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and of other galaxies, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar compositions. The vapor of water
Water exists as a vapor in:

State of the Sun: in small detectable quantities
Mercury environment: 3.4%, and a lot of water in Mercury’s exosphere
Venus condition: 0.002%
Earth’s atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% of the surface
Condition of the Moon: in small amounts
Martian conditions: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter state: 0.0004% – in ice only; and that of its moon Europa
Condition of Saturn – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subterranean ocean) . Uranus condition – in small amounts below 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar environments: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Comets: are not limited to cool stars and are even found in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circular stellar disks: including those of more than half T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, with a 10 km thick ocean about 30–40 km beneath Enceladus’ southern pole, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest an ocean of liquid water underground. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a connected layer between high-pressure ice and rock. The snow of the water
Water is available as ice at:

 Mars: under regolith and on poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on board the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other associated Kuiper belt objects and Oort clouds
And he also seems to be present at:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys (Tethys).

Different types of
Water and other volatiles probably do much for the inner systems of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layer may be in the form of ionic liquid where molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as surface water where oxygen crystallizes, but hydrogen ions they float freely inside the oxygen chamber. Amphibious and terrestrial habitability
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is critical to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The planet is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or farther away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), conditions allowing the three species to coexist would be much less likely. The topography of the earth also plays a role: its gravitational pull allows it to hold air, including atmospheric humidity. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a greenhouse effect that helps maintain relatively normal surface temperatures. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If the planet is dense enough, the water on it may be solid even at high temperatures, due to strong gravitational pressure, as was observed for the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is a politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element of many political struggles. It causes harm to health and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean water has improved in recent years in almost every part of the world, but about 1 billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion have inadequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 that more than half of the world’s population will be facing water-related problems. A report published in November 2009, estimates that by 2030, in some parts of the developing world, water demand will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to a clean water source since 1990. The proportion of the population in developing countries with access to clean water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. Group report the 2006 UN report stated that "there is enough water for everyone", but that access is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve delivery efficiency, such as the Paris Declaration on how aid is effective, have not been as well received by donors in the water sector as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on projects linked to recipient governments. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the formal and informal mechanisms through which decisions regarding water management are made. Effective water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a physical and social environment. Mistakes have sometimes been made when trying to apply ‘blueprints’ that work in developed countries to developing world settings and conditions. The Mekong River is one example; an assessment by the International Water Management Agency of systems in six countries dependent on the Mekong River for water found that full and transparent cost-benefit assessments and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also found that Cambodia’s draft water law was more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK NGO WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often tied to inadequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations Global Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO’s Global Water Assessment, has provided decision-makers with tools for designing sustainable water systems. The 2023 report estimates that 2 billion people (26% of the population) lack access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack adequately managed sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is described as a constant, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with severe or severe water scarcity. But over the past 40 years, water use has increased about 1% per year, and is projected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, tropical flooding has quadrupled, while flooding in northern midlatitudes has increased 2.5-fold. These floods between 2000 and 2019, 100,000 fatalities and $650 million.The organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Agency is conducting a project with the aim of applying good water management practices to reduce poverty. The treaties relating to water are the United Nations Convention against Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. By 2026, the UN declared that humanity has entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the oceans have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in waterless countries for at least one month each year, and drought costs $307 billion annually. He called for more realistic policies than past criteria. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that include ritual bathing (wudhu) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or immersion) in water is a central Christian Sacrament (called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual baths in fresh water are performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or area (e.g., in a misogi ceremony). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places, and objects, or as a means to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four primordial elements (as well as fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be the essence of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, argued that the earth, which is heavier than water, came from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows faster compared to the cube-shaped earth. The concept of the four physical humors associated water with dew, as cold and wet. The ancient element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (as well as earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The greatest temper is like (that of) water. The temper of water manifests itself in benefiting all things, and in holding, effortlessly (to the contrary), a low place disliked by all people." Hence (its course) is closer (ery) to the Tao" and "Nothing in the world is softer and weaker than water, and yet by attacking firm and firm things nothing can precede it—for nothing (does so) can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" chapter that "water man" and the attribution of the natural characteristics of the people of different parts of China to the characteristics of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note Grimm's tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept associated with magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the modern classic Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the "Ithaca" chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not just a "monotonous string of facts," but, its lyrics, like their title, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they descend into the calm silence of finishing 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon.' surprisingly in Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of lifting in all the confused poetry of footfall information collected in schoolbooks." The fluid textual style represents the novel's theme of "eternal, unchanging life," and the song represents the climax of the title in the novel. The following is the full song quote. What in water Bloom, water lover, drawer of water, watercarrier back in range, appreciated?Its nature: its democratic equality and consistency on its nature in search of its level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's conjecture: its barrelless depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific its waves and visiting surface particles in response to all aspects of its coastline: independence of its units: variability of ocean conditions: its stillness of water in calm: its stillness of water in nep and spring tides: its subsidence after extinction: its sterility in surrounding icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3 to 1 preponderance of the world's dry land: its undisputed dominance spread across square leagues over the entire area below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-worldly stability of its primordial valley: its luteofulvous bed: potential its ability to melt and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of islands and steep depressions: its alluvial deposits: its weight and size and density: its undisturbance in lagoons and highland tarns: its gradation of color in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its traffic effects in continental lakecontained streams and associated oceanic rivers and their tributaries and estuarine courses: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in earthquakes, tides, rock wells, eruptions, rivers, eddies, freshets, spates, . groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, floods, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its shelter in springs, and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and expressed as a well through a hole in the wall at the entrance of Ashtown, air filling, defecating: the simplicity of its nature, two hydrogen and one oxygen: its healing character: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its constant movement into runnels, gullies, indequate dams, leaks on shipboard: its properties cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its change as smoke, mist, cloud, rain, snow, ice, hail: its power in rigid hydrants: its various forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its hardiness in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in making hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its useful in canals, rivers, if navigable, harbours of floating and planting: its ability from artificial waves or waterways falling from level to level: its benthic animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) in numbers, if not literally, inhabitants of the earth: omnipresence as it makes up 90% of the human body: ugliness of mudflows lakes, plague plains, dying flower waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, in St. Peter’s Cathedral. John the Divine in New York City, which reinforced the Cathedral’s year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition to appear in the cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, a collective of artists who use water as their environmental theme or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate 10 years since access to water and sanitation was declared a human right by the United Nations, NGO WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact of clean water on people’s lives. Simulation of dihydrogen monoxide
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct name for water but rarely used in chemistry. The name has been used in lies and antics that ridicule scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, with an April Fools Day article in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story included safety concerns about the product. The music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based poets as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Going even further some artists have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Documents
References used
Works cited
More to read
External connections

World Water News Index
FAO Water Database, AQUASTAT
Chronology of Water Conflicts: Water Conflict Handbook archived 16 January 2013 on the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Website on World Bank strategy, activities and related publications on water resources
American Water Association stocked on 24 March 2018 at the Wayback plant
Water on the channel
Fluid Structure and Science Archived 28 December 2014 at Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water Chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Fluid and Steam Property Organization Archived 27 September 2022 at Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, PBS Documentary