Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and nearly colorless chemical. It is a major component of the Earth’s rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the water of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, is formed by strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or be a biological micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its high polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the Earth’s surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid state. When thoroughly separated, crystalline ice can form in the form of snow. The gas state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth’s surface area, with oceans and oceans accounting for most of the volume of water (approximately 96.5%). Smaller portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and glaciers in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as steam, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and rain (0.001%). Water moves constantly through a cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation, and seepage, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of freshwater consumption goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fishing has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by ships via seas, rivers, lakes, and roads. Large amounts of water, ice, and air are used to heat and heat industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, they are widely used in industrial applications and in cooking and cleaning. Water, ice, and sand are also important in many sports and other forms of recreation, including swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology of words
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-German *watar (spring also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffixed form of root *wed- ('water'; 'water'). Also similar, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. The old story
On Earth
Things to have
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is bad at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be a "living solvent": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps must be taken to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only substance commonly existing as a solid, liquid, and gas under favorable earthly conditions. The States
Along with oxidane, water is one of two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of liquid matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can create phase transitions: freezing (water and ice), melting (ice and water), vaporization (water and vapor), condensation (vapor and water), sublimation (ice and vapor) and deposition (vapor and ice). Density of the body
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled in a certain temperature range; it is the only known natural substance to do so when it is water. Besides, it is unusual in that it hardly shrinks as it cools, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C, the volume of water decreases. As it cools and freezes, water expands about 9 percent, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This explosion can create tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rock. Being a solid, it exhibits a natural tendency to contract and become more dense as it melts. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 39 °F sinks to the bottom, and ice surfaces, floating on top of liquid water. The ice traps the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, many marine life in the lakes would die in the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet’s oceans. Magnetism (Magnetism).
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, in superconducting magnets it can achieve noticeable interaction. The phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C and water boils or air freezes at 100 °C. However, even below the boiling point, water can be converted to vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, cooling occurs in cold regions when snowflakes form by colliding with an aerosol layer or ice nucleus. During freeze drying, the food is frozen and then stored under low pressure to allow the ice on the surface to sediment. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good pproximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  − −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display pattern {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\display type v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display type v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the liquid and solid phase molar volumes, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display type L_{\text{f}}}
  
 it is the heat stored in the melting process. In many materials, volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases during melting. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in the formation of subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also affects the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep sea or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point has a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure liquid water can be. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as an important factor. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gaseous and liquid densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of the surrounding water) are density related. For example, for appropriate pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in various applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth’s mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on the Earth’s surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can form in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. By 2024, twenty are confirmed experimentally and many more are predicted theoretically. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, a cubic, superionic, face-facing ice phase, was formed when a drop of water experienced a shock wave that raised water pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperature to thousands of degrees, forming a structure of rigid oxygen atoms through which hydrogen atoms flowed freedom. When encapsulated between graphene layers, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical composition of the liquid are poorly understood; other theories attribute its unusual properties to the presence of two states of water. Taste and aroma
Fresh water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) is often high in dissolved compounds that can impart a variety of tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have evolved senses that enable them to judge the drinkability of water in order to avoid salty or corrosive water. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue due to absorption of light in region c. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water set against a pure white background, in the sun. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used in aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of underwater overtones means that glass cuvettes with shorter path lengths can be used. To observe the absorption spectrum of a fundamental stretch of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Furthermore, the cuvette should be transparent at approximately 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a common material for cuvette windows containing aqueous solutions. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed in, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches ocean surfaces below 1,000 ft. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but less than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass types (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity. In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are located near the two corners of the oxygen-centered tetrahedrin. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Some substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than many other elements, so the oxygen atom is partially negatively charged while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beer. In addition, many organic compounds, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Ba interactions entre mayi na ba sous-unités ya ba biomacromolécules wana e shape pliage ya proteine, pairing ya base ya ADN, na ba phénomènes misusu cruciales pona vie (effet hydrophobe). Many organic compounds (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic and insoluble substances, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, one water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. The hydrogen bond is about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to one another in bulk water. Yango nde ntina oyo ba points de fondue mpe ya ébullition ya mayi ezali mingi koleka oyo ya ba composés analogiques mosusu lokola sulfure d’hydrogène. Balimboli mpe makoki na yango ya molunge ya spécifique ya likolo mpenza (pene na 4,2 J/(g·K)), molunge ya fusion (pene na 333 J/g), molunge ya vaporisation (2257 J/g), mpe conductivité thermique (kati na 0,561 mpe 0,679 W/(m·K)). Bizaleli yango esalaka ete mai ezala malamu mingi mpo na kopekisa klima ya Mabelé, na kobombaka molunge mpe komema yango kati na mbu mpe mopɛpɛ. The hydrogen bond of water is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Thus, it is estimated that 90% can be attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a small tube against the force of gravity. This trait relies on all root systems, such as trees. Self-ionization of itself
Mai ezali solution ya faible ya hydroxyde d’hydronium –ezali na équilibre 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, na bosangisi na solvation ya ba ions hydronium na hydroxyde oyo ezuami. Electrical conductivity in electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of some of the ionic material such as common salt. Mai ya mai ekoki kokabolama na biloko hydrogène mpe oxygène na kolekisa courant électrique na kati na yango —processus oyo babengaka électrolyse. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical characteristics
Mai ya mayi ekoki kokanisama ete ezali incompressible mpo na makambo mingi : compressibilité na yango ebandi na 4,4 kino 5,1×10−10 Pa−1 na ba conditions ordinaires. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% decrease in volume. Viscosité ya mayi ezali soki 10−3 Pa·s to 0,01 poise na 20 °C (68 °F), mpe vitesse ya makelele na mayi ya mayi ezali entre 1.400 na 1.540 mètres na seconde (4.600 na 5.100 ft/s) selon température. Sound travels long distances in water with low attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that cetaceans and humans use to communicate and sense the environment (sonar). Processing assistance
Ba éléments métalliques oyo ezali électropositifs mingi koleka hydrogène, mingi mingi ba métaux alcalins mpe, na ndenge ya moke, ba métaux alcalins ya mabele, elongolaka hydrogène na mayi, esala ba hydroxydes mpe ebimisaka hydrogène. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water flow is hydrography. Boyekoli ya bopanzani pe bopanzani ya mayi ya se ya mabele ezali hydrogéologie, ya ba glaciers ezali glaciologie, ya mayi ya kati ya mabele ezali limnologie pe bopanzani ya ba océans ezali océanographie. Ecological processes in hydrology are central to ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found above, below and above the planet is called the hydrosphere. The volume of earth’s water (the world’s total water) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or well. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor forms. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water plays an important role in many geological processes. Groundwater is rich in rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. At the Earth’s surface, water plays an important role in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, snow, is also responsible for transporting a lot of the sediment that forms at the surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous movement of water through the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, ground water, and vegetation. Water moves permanently through each of these regions in a water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from the ocean and other waters entering the atmosphere and evaporation from terrestrial plants and animals entering the atmosphere. rain, which is caused by water vapor that enters the atmosphere and falls on land or sea. water from the land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean is recycled, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as it flows into the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring in the land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, is of several types: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with a small contribution of fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that solidify when moist air meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are low, just before sunrise and when soil temperatures begin to rise. Evaporated water can also reflect sunlight to produce a rainbow. Runoff often accumulates over river beds. Through erosion, drainage modifies the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for the development of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, especially lowland, is covered by water which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences limited water availability. This occurs when a region consistently receives below-average precipitation either because of its topography or because of its location in relation to latitude. Water resources
A water resource is a water resource that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water is used as "stocks" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapour, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world’s total freshwater reserves, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, air, and ecosystems. The length of time that water remains in storage varies widely: some aquifers have water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large portion of the water supplied for some regions consists of water from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, resulting in groundwater depletion. Seawater and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus other trace elements. The properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (about 28.6 °F) and its density increases as the temperature drops to the freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum density at supercooled temperatures. Water salinity in the Great Seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its very high salinity levels of between 30 and 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
A tide is the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in sea and estuary water depths and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. Localized tidal changes are the result of changes in the positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth together with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. The submerged seashore strip at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Impact on life
From a biological perspective, water has many distinct properties that are essential for life to flourish. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. Every known form of life depends on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body’s solutes are dissolved and as an integral part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins to store fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to release small molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that will be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes couldn’t exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate liquid hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, meaning a proton donor), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values below 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters are full of life. The first living creatures came out of the water; almost all fish live exclusively in the water, and there are many species of marine mammals, including dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as seaweed and algae grow in the water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. In particular, plankton form the basis of the marine food chain. Vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals, need to get out regularly for a breath of fresh air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show many modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated water including breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and grids (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life has evolved in aquatic habitats, many of them have little or no aquatic respiratory skills. Effect on human civilization
Civilization has flourished historically around rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society depended largely on the Nile River. The earliest civilization of the Indus Valley (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) flourished along the Indus River and tributaries of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong succeeded in part because of ease of access by water and increased trade. Islands with sheltered coastlines, like Singapore, are highly developed for a reason. In areas such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water has been and is a major contributor to human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or drinking water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or drinking water, and is sometimes referred to as safe, or "safe for bathing" water. Chlorine is a skin and mucous irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and generally followed by state standards (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm untreated chlorine in wastewater for bathing water). Water for washing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological state by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Recycling is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each person gets less than 1,700 square meters of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is generated globally every year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, regenerating in the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on its access stem from uneven natural distribution in space and time, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and increasing populations. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without safe and clean water. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Water scarcity and poor sanitation are killers; about five million people a year die from waterborne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, accounting for nearly a third of the world’s population, are also experiencing moderate to severe water stress and 17 of these produce more water each year than is recycled through their natural water cycles. This salt not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also pollutes groundwater resources. Human activities
Agricultural work
The bulk of consumer water use is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the "used" water (used and not recycled) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in wealthy countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, treating and transporting water, and removing wastewater. But growing economic, social, and climatic pressures are of growing concern for water, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the idea of ​​higher water levels. As populations and economies grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water challenges may arise. An agricultural water use assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Institute for Water Management in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It looked at the current availability of water for agriculture around the world and presented maps of areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-scarce regions, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically deprived areas, where a lack of water investment or human capacity may prevent authorities from meeting demand. The report indicated that it would be possible to produce enough food in the future, but that continuing current food production and environmental trends would lead to problems in many parts of the world. To avoid the global water crisis, farmers must scramble to increase yields to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities seek more efficient use of water. Water scarcity also results from water-intensive production. Cotton, for example: one pound of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic feet of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, the water is used in regions already threatened by water scarcity. Massive environmental damage has been done: for example, the diversion of water in the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cubic hundredth of a meter, and to the temperature of melting ice". But for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times heavier, was needed. Therefore, they assigned the task of determining the exact volume of a liter of water. Although the gram definition showed water at 0 °C (32 °F)—the maximum reproductive temperature—the scientists chose to reinterpret the pattern and conduct their experiments at a temperature with a higher density of water, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but in May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is composed primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains small amounts of the heavy isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Thus, standard water is defined by the standard Vienna mean ocean water specification. For drinking alcohol
The human body is, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) daily for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact quantity depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most are absorbed through food or beverages other than drinking water directly. Medical literature favors minimal fluid intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding other requirements for fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can produce 0.8 to 1 liter of fluid per hour, but stressors such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than they need while exercising, putting them at risk for hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking plenty of water, usually up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) at mealtimes, was associated with weight loss. Drinking plenty of water helps prevent constipation. An early recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council stated: "The general rule of thumb for various individuals is one milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in processed foods." The latest U.S. National Research Council Dietary Reference Acquisition Report. generally recommended, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 gal US US) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that this water content includes these foods provides approximately 19% of the total surveyed water. Pregnant and nursing women generally need extra water to stay hydrated. The U.S. Institute of Physicians recommends, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 U.S. gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 U.S. gal) for women; pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should take 3 liters (12 cups), since so much water is lost during breastfeeding. Also, we know is that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and alcohol (with caffeine included). Water is excreted in many ways; through urine and feces, perspiration, and exhalation of water vapour. With physical activity and heat, water loss will increase and daily water requirements may also increase. People need less polluted water. Common impurities are metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Other solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide the necessary electrolytes. The single largest freshwater source (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing up
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is used mostly in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is the most common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reagents well and is amphoteric (both acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Still, these qualities are sometimes desirable. Furthermore, the acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions in water was observed. Recently, supercritical water has become a topic of research. Oxygenated supercritical water effectively fights organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are the most commonly used fluids for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can even be harvested naturally from a lake or sea. It is very effective in transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water because of its large stored heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that common industrial metals such as steel and copper oxidize rapidly in untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to convert waste heat to water or carry it away by evaporation in the cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants account for the majority of water use. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron barrier. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are favored to stop the reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high vaporization heat and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting fluid. The evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float in the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the risks of vapor emissions, which can occur when water is used on high-temperature fires in confined spaces, and of hydrogen emissions, when water-reactive materials, such as other metals or hot carbon like coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose water, releasing water gas. Similar explosive forces were observed in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved did not come from the firefighting process but from the reactor water cooling system itself. Vapor expansion occurred when the intense heat of the core caused water to vaporize. Hydrogen may have been evaporated as a result of the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkali earth metals, give off so much heat in contact with water that a fire hazard may arise. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a commonly produced product that is usually transported in paper bags. If submerged, these can ignite as the components react with water. Rest
Water is used extensively for recreation, as well as for exercise and sport. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lake shores, beaches and water parks are popular places to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and visual appearance of running water soothing, and fountains and other water features are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. Water is also used for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at low temperatures either as ice or crystallized from snow. Water Industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, cisterns for rainwater harvesting, irrigation networks, and water treatment plants, water reservoirs, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is usually collected from springs, taken from artificial boreholes (holes) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in sufficient locations is therefore the most likely way to produce water, assuming aquifers can supply sufficient water. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This can include removing undissolved particles, debris and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation serves all three purposes. More sophisticated techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is an expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Distribution of drinking water occurs through municipal water systems, tanker water supply or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have water distribution systems. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to maintain clean water. Water pollution can be the single most serious misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant prevents other uses of the water, it tends to pollute the source, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of waste, they do not fit into standard accounting for market costs, being conceived of as externalities that the market cannot account for. Thus some people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are no longer shared with the local people, the victims of this pollution. Drugs consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic organisms if they are bioaccumulated and biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are mainly treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reduction of contaminated surface water runoff has been addressed through a variety of conservation and treatment strategies. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes involve reactions that use water-soluble chemicals, suspension of solids in aqueous slurries or the use of water to dissolve and release substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Activities such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling in power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity harvested from water energy. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. The energy is transferred to the motion of the water. Typically, a dam is built on the river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water coming out of the lake is forced into turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasts and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precision cuts. It works perfectly, is completely safe, and is environmentally friendly. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating, or to keep saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water to industrial facilities is polluting. Pollution includes solutes removed (chemical pollution) and cooling water spills (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various purification techniques both in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the proliferation of AI could "put global and national water security at risk". Making food
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking techniques and often involve submerging food in water or in its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles within the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure occurring at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per pound of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C, and one mole of salt per pound raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C; likewise, increasing the number of dispersed particles decreases the freezing point. Solutes in water also have an effect on water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water decrease water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low water activity levels. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food safety and shelf life. Moisture content is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or improved using a chemical ion exchange system. It can have a significant impact on product quality, as well as cleaning performance. Water hardness is calculated based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it is less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a 2010 Water Footprint report, one pound of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also explicitly state that this is a global average and that circumstances determine the amount of water used in beef production. Using a doctor
Water for injection is on the World Health Organisation’s list of essential drugs. Expansion in nature
In the universe
Much of the cosmic water is produced as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by an external storm of gas and dust. When this emission eventually affects the surrounding gas, the generated shock wave compresses and heats the gas. The water detected evaporates rapidly from this warm hot gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a huge cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "this discovery suggests that water is abundant in the universe almost throughout its existence". Water is found in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies as well, since its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, many of the other planetary systems may contain similar ingredients. The water breeze
Water exists as steam in:

The Sun's Atmosphere : with detectable traces
Atmospheric Mercury: 3.4%, and more water in the Mercury exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth’s atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the total atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
The atmosphere of the Moon: with traces
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – with ices only; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn’s atmosphere – with ices only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subterranean ocean) . Uranus atmosphere – in traces below 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: includes those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cool stars and even found in massive hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar discs: includes those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water of water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in trace amounts on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water is present on the Saturn moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometre-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers beneath Enceladus’ south polar surface, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, probably mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest a subterranean liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also be present on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer trapped between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice of the water
Water is like ice on:

 Mars: under regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as glaciers on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported detection of water molecules on NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organisation's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Moons of Jupiter: Over Europa and also those of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and in the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Charon system
Comets and related objects in the Kuiper Belt and Oort Clouds
And it’s also likely to have:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys, the Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other solutes probably make up most of Uranus and Neptune's interior and water in deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which molecules dissolve in a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superionic water in which oxygen crystallizes, but hydrogen ions float free in the lattice of oxygen. Water and planetary settlement
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is critical to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were somewhat closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million miles), the conditions that allow the three species to coexist would not be very far apart. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to trap air, including atmospheric water. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (the greenhouse effect) that helps maintain relatively stable surface temperatures when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which depends on the planet’s gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on its surface can be dense even at high temperatures, due to strong gravitational pressure, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Legislation, policy, and challenges
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a global resource of intelligence and a central issue in many political disputes. It creates impacts on health and destroys biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent years in almost every part of the world, but about 1 billion people still lack access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion lack sanitation. However, some observers predict that by 2025, more than half of the world’s population will face a water-related disaster. A report, published in November 2009, estimates that by 2030, in some regions of the developing world, water demand will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to a safe water source since 1990. It is estimated that the percentage of people in developing countries with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "water enough for everyone", but that access is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Moreover, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, are not as well received by donors in the water sector as they are in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working in overlapping projects and recipient governments. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Evaluation of Water Management in Agriculture reported that mismanagement is one of the causes of certain types of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Effective water management is primarily about identifying which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply ‘plans’ that work in the developed world to developing world settings and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; an International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that in-depth and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also found that the draft Cambodian water law was more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child died every 15 seconds from easily preventable waterborne diseases, often tied to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN Global Water Development Report, published by UNESCO’s Global Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report estimates that two billion people (26% of the population) have no access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack adequately managed sanitation. The urban population (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been reported to be endemic, due to excessive water consumption and pollution. The report estimates that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or severe water stress. But over the past 40 years, drought has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate through 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of those floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management conducts projects aimed at implementing efficient water management to reduce poverty. Conventions affecting waters are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNECD), the International Convention for the Control of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. By 2026, the United Nations predicted that humanity has entered a period of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the Great Lakes have receded since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world population live in water insecure countries of land costs $307 billion a year. It calls for policies that match reality rather than old norms. And culture
The church of the church
Water is considered a purifier in many religions. Religions that include ritual bathing (including eyindi) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of man in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual baths for the dead are practiced in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can usually be performed after washing certain parts of the body using pure water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (e.g., in a misogi ceremony). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purposes of baptism, blessing people, places and objects, or as a means of driving away evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy of philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four primordial elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be the ylem, or fundamental element of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, argued that the earth, which is larger than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The idea of ​​the four humours of the body associated water with dust, like cold and water. The ancient element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is seen in benefiting it in all things, and in attaining it, effortlessly (in contrast), the lowest place not desired by all." Therefore (its path) is closer to (that of) Tao" and "There is nothing in this world softer and weaker than water, and yet against things that are hard and strong there is no substitute for it—because there is nothing (more effective) to change for." water, declaring it "man is water" and attributing the natural characteristics of the people of different regions of China to the character of the local Water Folklore
The "water of life" is found in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Consider Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not only "a string of monotonous affairs", but, its phrases, as its subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, grather and break, until it descends into the final peaceful silence of 'pestilential fens, faded flower waters, stagnant pools in waning moon.'" The song is considered one of the most wonderful passages in Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, accomplishes "the impossible task of lifting into poetry all the jumble of foot information accumulated in textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the theme of the novel which is "eternal, ever-changing life," and the song represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following is the song read in its entirety. What in the water did Bloom, a water lover, a water drawer, a returning diver in range, admire?Its universality: its democratic equanimity and its constancy in nature in search of its own level: its breadth in Mercator's ocean of projection: its unplugged depth in the Pacific Sundam Trench over 8,000 fathoms: the inquistness of its waves and surface particles which in turn visit all points of its shore: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence and calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap tides in spring: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in circumpolar ice, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3 to 1 preponderance over the dry land of the world: its undisputed hegemony extending for square leagues over every region below the subequatorial tropics of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its fore basin: its luteofulvous bed: capacity for it of dissolving and holding in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and subsiding promontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and upland tarns: its gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular ramifications in continental streams of continental lake and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf, north and south equatorial currents: its violence in sea tremors, spouts of water, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, water ruptions, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, floods, cloud-bursts: its circumtremestral ahorizontal curve of great : its secrecy in springs, and latent moisture, indicated by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by a hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew : simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen and one constituent part of oxygen : its healing virtues : its buoyancy in Dead Sea waters: its persevering penetrativeness in runnels, gutters, inadequate dams, leaks in ships: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: it metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, . rain, sleet, snow, hail : its strength in rigid hydrants : its various forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and balls and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds in fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea : its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, the glaciers: its docility in hydraulic working wheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleaching works, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and gravings: its potentiality derived from harnessed tides or the a stream falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia into pond holes, sickly fens, the waters of these flowers faded, the pool enclosed by the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which tied into the Cathedral’s year-long project on our commitment to water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Cote, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark 10 years of UN-declared access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten artists to highlight the impact of clean water on people’s lives. Hydrogen monoxide parody
‘Hydrogen monoxide’ is the technical but rarely used name for a liquid chemical. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983, when an April Fools’ Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story had safety concerns about the item. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go one step further some rappers have composed entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Key words
The references
The works listed
Another reading
External links

World water data sheet
FAO Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Timeline: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 by Wayback Machine
School of Marine Sciences (USGS) . World Bank expertise portal, work and related documents on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 by Wayback Machine
But on the web
Water Production and Science Archived December 28, 2014 by Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020 by Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Water and Steam Properties Association Archive on September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS Documentary