Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic trace element. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its high polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to water's triple point, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. Finely broken crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, and seas and oceans make up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), Antarctic and Greenland glaciers and ice caps (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (composed of ice and liquid water suspended in air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water constantly moves through the cycle of water evaporation, transpiration (evaporation), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be the main source of food in many countries around the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the trade in long-distance goods (such as oil, natural gas, and industrial products) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and at home. Water is an excellent solvent for many substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes, cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also part of many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 🐍𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European form *woed-fix, Suf-orpean. ("water"; "wet"). Also cognate through an Indo-European root with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence Eng. "hydro-"), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
on earth
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it does not dissolve non-polar substances poorly. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. in the states
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools over certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so when liquid. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cuft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9% to a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause tremendous pressure, burst pipes, and crack rocks. As a solid, it contracts and becomes denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and forms ice on the surface that floats on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below and prevents it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would die in winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve an appreciable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), while water boils or condenses into steam at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into steam by evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost settles on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form when they settle on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In freeze drying, food is frozen and kept under low pressure to sublimate the ice on its surface. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              Mr
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances expand in volume as they melt, so the melting point increases with increasing pressure. However, ice is less dense than water, so the melting point is lower. In glaciers, when the amount of ice is thick enough, the pressure can melt, resulting in the formation of postglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the density of the vapor phase is much lower than that of the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep oceans or underground. For example, the Old Faithful geyser in Yellowstone National Park has temperatures in excess of 205 °C (401 °F). In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than at sea level. For example, at an altitude of 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to shorten the cooking time by raising the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triples and critical points
A pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) contains curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can exist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019 A triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be progressively compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which differ significantly from ambient water) are density sensitive. For example, at the right pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry, and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and precipitation of minerals. Ice and water phases
The common form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. in 2024 twenty have been experimentally confirmed, and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-on cubic superionic phase of ice, was discovered when a water droplet was subjected to a shock wave that increased the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, creating a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. Sandwiched between the graphene layers, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, common spring water (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is clearly blue due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the tones of the O-H stretching vibrations. Visible color intensity increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies to, for example, a swimming pool where the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of the lower shades of water allows the use of short-path glass cuvettes. A length of about 25 μm is required to observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm). In addition, the cuvette must be transparent at approximately 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one of the materials most commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, using a 1 cm sample chamber. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live hundreds of meters deep in water because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the oceans below a depth of 1,000 meters (3,300 feet). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners contain lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Combined with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, the latter of which provides fizzy drinks, sparkling wines and beer foam. Also, many substances found in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shapes protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other life-important phenomena (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (for example, fats, oils, and alkalis) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic materials are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in its liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. For this reason, the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds, such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain the exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). Because of these properties, water regulates the Earth's climate more effectively by storing heat and transferring it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond of 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of these are attributed to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% are partially covalent. These connections are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when a small amount of an ionic substance such as common salt is dissolved. Liquid water can be split into its hydrogen and oxygen elements by passing an electric current through it, a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy than the heat released during the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible in most cases: under normal conditions, its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10–10 Pa−1. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10–3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. In water, sound travels long distances with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), and cetaceans and humans use this property for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. on earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. Hydrogeology is the study of the distribution and movement of groundwater, glaciology of glaciers, limnology of inland waters, and oceanography of oceans. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water on, below, and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water in the atmosphere also exists in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that forms volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical atmospheric processes. Water, and to a lesser but significant extent ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport at the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, due to water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land mostly reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as it flows into the sea, about 47 Tt per year, and evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate above ground of 119 Tt per year, comes in several forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, along with fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when dense water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning, when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature of the earth begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to form a rainbow. Runoff often accumulates over basins that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for population centers to develop. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a storm occurs. A drought, on the other hand, is a longer period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water supplies. This occurs when a region receives consistently below-average rainfall due to its topography or local latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs both as a "stock" and as a "flow." Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the world's fresh water is contained in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The storage time of water varies greatly: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing when dry and increasing when wet. A large proportion of the water supply in some regions is water extracted from stored water, and when the withdrawal exceeds the replenishment, the supply decreases. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride and smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)), and its density increases with decreasing temperature down to the freezing point, instead of reaching its maximum density above the freezing point. The salinity of water in the great seas ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of 30 to 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of sea and estuarine water bodies and cause fluctuating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. Submerged at high tides and exposed at low tides, the coastal strip of the sea, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are very important for the reproduction of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows for replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. During anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (such as starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). During catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (such as glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids used as fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to obtain solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also very important for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a donor of hydrogen ions (H+, ie protons), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as hydroxide ion (OH−), to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in its ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 and bases have pH values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are filled with life. The earliest forms of life originated in water; almost all fish live only in water, there are many species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some animal species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are usually the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills rather than lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungs, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must periodically come to the surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have many modifications to survive in low-oxygen waters, including breathing tubes (see siphons in insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy access by water and the resulting expanded trade. Islands with safe water ports like Singapore have thrived for the same reason. In water-scarce places like North Africa and the Middle East, access to clean drinking water has been and is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made drinkable by filtration, distillation, or a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is harmless to humans when used for bathing or bathing is known by various names other than potable or potable water and is sometimes referred to as safe water or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine in bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a suitable microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually wastewater, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-stressed countries, meaning each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water each year. Every year, 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource that is recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures to access it arise from its naturally uneven distribution over space and time, growing economic demands for agriculture and industry, and increasing population. Currently, nearly a billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. in 2000 The United Nations has set the Millennium Development Goals that by 2015 halve the number of people without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 The UN has committed to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030. achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation services. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths each year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million deaths annually. deaths from diarrhea in children. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, home to about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate to severe water scarcity, with 17 of them extracting more water each year than is recharged through natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Use of people
Agriculture
Most of the water used by humans is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80-90 percent of all water consumed by humans. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is used for irrigation, but most of the "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) water goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed complex water systems for water collection, treatment and supply, and wastewater disposal. However, growing economic, demographic, and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for steady water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and economy grow, the consumption of water-hungry meat increases, the demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water challenges may arise. in 2007 The International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted an assessment of water management in agriculture to determine whether the world has enough water to feed a growing population. He assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and identified areas of water scarcity. A fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, have been found to live in physically water-stressed areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically water-scarce areas, where public authorities are unable to meet water needs due to a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity. The report found that in the future it will be possible to produce enough food, but if today's food production and environmental trends continue, many countries around the world will face crises. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to work to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, for cotton: 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water are needed to produce 1 kg of cotton, equivalent to a pair of jeans. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. There has been significant environmental damage: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production has largely led to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
in 1795 April 7 In France, the gram was defined as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one-hundredth of a cubic meter and at the melting temperature of ice." However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive - the kilogram - was needed. Therefore, the task was to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Although the established definition of the gram stated that water was at 0 °C (32 °F) (a highly reproducible temperature), the researchers decided to redefine the standard and make measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which at the time was measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, precisely defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but in 2019 in May was based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point of water (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes contains fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Standard water is therefore defined in the Vienna Standard Average Ocean Water Specification. For a drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend that adult men consume 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water per day, and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gallons) per day for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it comes from food or drink, not from drinking straight water. The medical literature recommends consuming less, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, not including additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. During exercise, people can drink much more water than necessary, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" does not seem to have any real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) per meal, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. in 1945 The original recommendation for water intake from the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "A common standard for most people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this is found in prepared foods." The latest reference report by the US National Research Council, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources), recommends: 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal) for survey inclusion. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should increase their intake to 3 liters (12 cups). consumed with food, and the rest comes from drinking water (including caffeine); through sweat and exhalation, water loss will also increase. People need water that is low in impurities, such as copper and lead compounds such as PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter and Vibrio. Some soluble substances are acceptable and even desirable to provide the necessary electrolytes. The largest source of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia
Transport
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant, and less commonly as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these features are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions due to water was also observed. Supercritical water has been a recent research topic. Oxygenated supercritical water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high thermal capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water can even be obtained from a lake or sea. Due to its high latent heat of vaporization, it is particularly efficient at transferring heat through the evaporation and condensation of water. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly in raw water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and the cooling fluid (used to transfer excess heat to the water reservoir or to remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants consume the most water. Water can also be used as a neutron moderator in the nuclear power industry. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This is a passive safety measure because removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction, and it is better to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure proper cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. As the water evaporates, heat is removed from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires containing oil and organic solvents because many organic materials float on top of the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the risk of a vapor explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot coal such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, break down the water to produce gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water did not come from fire extinguishing, but from the reactor water cooling system itself. A steam explosion occurred when water turned into steam due to extreme overheating of the core. The hydrogen explosion could have been caused by a reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, release enough heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced material that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are soaked, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. Rest
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and look of running water to be calming, and fountains and other running water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and communication. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection tanks, water supply networks and water treatment plants, water reservoirs, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. So building more wells in the right places is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can deliver adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. The most popular methods are sand filtration, which removes only undissolved substances, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced methods such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, delivered by tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to the poor. Another option is to reduce use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city in order to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution may be the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it is excluded from standard market cost accounting because it is perceived as an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. In this way, other people pay for water pollution, and the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local residents - the victims of this pollution. Medicines used by humans often enter waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Contaminated surface runoff mitigation is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes depend on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in aqueous suspensions, or using water to dissolve substances and extract or wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use a lot of water, requiring a dedicated water source and often causing significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectric power is electricity produced from hydropower. Hydroelectric power is obtained from water by driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectric power is an inexpensive, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Usually, a dam is built on a river and an artificial lake is created behind it. Water coming out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water jets and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is quite safe and doesn't harm the environment. It is also used to cool machinery to prevent overheating or overheating of saw blades. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of raw water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for various purposes and uses various methods of water supply and disposal. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses a lot of water, so the development of artificial intelligence could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and stewing are popular cooking methods that often involve submerging food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in food science. Dissolved substances in water, such as salts and sugars, affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature in the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Soluble substances in water reduce water activity, which is important to know because most bacteria stop growing at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. This can seriously affect the quality of the product and also affect sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (US). Based on 2010 a report published by the organization Water Footprint, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and environmental factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is included in the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
in the universe
Most of the water in the universe is formed as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. In this warm, dense gas, the observed water forms rapidly. in 2011 July 22 report described a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the scientists, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been discovered in the interstellar clouds of the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems probably have similar constituents. Water vapor
Water in vapor form is:

Solar atmosphere: in detectable amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the total atmosphere, typically 1-4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in small amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in glaciers; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere is only in glaciers; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - in small amounts below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: Not limited to cooler stars and even found in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Round disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri, as well as the disks of TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on Saturn's moon Enceladus as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus' south pole, and on Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is in the form of ice:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Mainly as layers of ice on Earth and in craters and volcanic rocks on the Moon. NASA reported that in 2009 in September, NASA's Moon Mineralogical Map detected water molecules on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa, as well as the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: A planet in the ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And also likely to be:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, where the molecules disintegrate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, or, deeper down, as superionic water, where the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Habitability of water and planet
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions for the three forms to exist simultaneously would be much less. The size of the Earth also plays an important role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including the moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin atmospheres or none at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere create a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the environmental pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure exerted by gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will experience water vulnerability. in 2009 in November published report states that by 2030 in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe source of water since 1990. The proportion of developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970. to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. in 2006 hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, water donors have not been as effective on global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, as in education and health, so many donors may be working on overlapping projects while recipient governments are not empowered to act. in 2007 The authors of the Assessment of Comprehensive Water Management in Agriculture identified poor management as one of the causes of some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to adapt developed world "projects" to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; A policy review of six countries dependent on the Mekong River for water by the International Water Management Institute found that comprehensive and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's water bill was far more complicated than it needed to be. in 2004 UK charity WaterAid has reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003 The UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. in 2023 the report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People living in cities (2.4 billion) by 2050 will face a water shortage. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with severe or critical water scarcity. However, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to increase by 2050. will grow at the same rate. Since 2000 the number of floods in the tropics has increased by a factor of four, and in the northern mid-latitudes the number of floods has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods in 2000-2019. reached 100,000 deaths and 650 million Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute runs projects aimed at effectively managing water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on 22 March and World Oceans Day is on 8 June. in 2026 The United Nations has declared that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, since the 1970s. 35% of wetlands have disappeared, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, 4 billion years of water scarcity and at least one month of water scarcity. 307 billion dollars a year. It demanded policies that corresponded to reality and not to the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
In most religions, water is considered a purifier. Faiths that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or pouring or pouring) of a person into water is the primary sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (Mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, many religions, including Islam and Judaism, perform a ritual bath in pure water for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Taymmum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (such as the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that a priest has consecrated for baptism, for the blessing of persons, places and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as the ilem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, continued to believe that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associated water with phlegm because it is cold and moist. The classical water element was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). In some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems, water is held up as a role model. in 1891 James Legge's translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest perfection is like water. The excellence of water is that it benefits all things, and, not seeking (the contrary), occupies a low place that is disliked by all men. Thus (its path) is close to (that) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet there is nothing that can strike solid and strong things, because there is nothing (so effective) that it could be replaced'. the natural characteristics of people in different regions of China and the character of local water resources
"Living water" is mentioned in Germanic and Slavic tales as a means of raising the dead. Note the Grimm's Tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy between living and dead water. The fountain of youth is associated with the concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the Ithaca chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous string of facts" and its phrases, like their themes, "ebb and flow, ebb and flow, gather and break until they sink into the calm of the closing "plague marshes, pale flower waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon.” and, according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves the "incredible feat of putting into poetry all the clutter of schoolbook information." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the climax of the novel's motif. The following is the complete hymn quoted. What did Bloom, the water-lover, the water-carrier, admire when he returned to the range? In its universality: its democratic equality and constancy of nature, seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its indefinite depth in the Sundam Trench, 8ohm waves we exceed0.0 calm0. and particles of the surface which visit all points of the coast in turn: independence of units: variability of sea states: hydrostatic calm at rest: hydrokinetic ebb and spring tides: subsidence after devastation: its sterility in surrounding ice sheets, arctic and antarctic: its climate and commercial importance compared to land. Globe: its undisputed hegemony extending in square leagues over the entire region below the sub-equatorial Tropic of Capricorn; the multilayered stability of its primordial basin: its yellowish bottom: the ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble matter, including millions of tons of the most precious metals; its slow erosion: its slow masses and maximum peninsular sediments: its volume and density: its immobility in lagoons and upland sands: its gradation of colors in stormy, temperate and cold climates: its vehicles in continental lakes in flooded streams and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and violent marine currents: gulf, northern and transoceanic in current: water spouts, artesian wells, eruptions, currents, eddies, pools of water, tides, floods, basins, water fissures, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, tides, tides, cloud bursts. rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments, exemplified by the well in the wall at Ashtown Gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: its simplicity of composition, two parts of hydrogen and one component of oxygen: curative properties: buoyancy in penetrating oxygenated waters, excessive flow of water. inadequate dams, leaks in a ship: its properties of cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and example: metamorphoses as steam, fog, clouds, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in stiff hydrants: its variety of forms in sloughs and gelds and beds. lagoons, and atolls, and archipelagos, and sounds, and fjords, and ebbs, and tidal estuaries, and branches of the sea: its firmness in glaciers, icebergs, icebergs: its obedience to the action of hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric plants, bleaching works, canal works, tanch factories if navigable, floating and floating docks: its the potential resulting from used up tides or bodies of water falling from one level to another: underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) in numbers, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its prevalence as 90% of its filth, lost human bodies: plague swamps, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster of New York's St. In the John the Divine Cathedral, he curated the piece "The Value of Water", which consolidated the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name was used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983 with an April Fool's Day article in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was made up of concerns about the safety of the material. Music
The word "water" has been used as a catchphrase or adlib by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as 2023. Florida Water by Danny Towers. See also
Notes
Links
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Chronology of Water Conflicts: Water Conflicts Database Archived 2013 January 16 Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
A portal to World Bank strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 2018 March 24 The Wayback Machine. Water in the network
Water Structure and Science Archived 2014 December 28 The Wayback Machine. Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe, Ideas, BBC, video, 3:16 min, 2019 Water chemistry Archived 2020 June 19 Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 2022 September 27 Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary