Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic trace element. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance throughout the world, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice in their solid state. Finely divided crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, and seas and oceans make up the majority of water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle through evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been and still is a major source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance transport of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and industrial products) is by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Industry and housing use large amounts of water, ice and steam for cooling and heating. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes as well as in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also the source of many sports and other entertainment such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *woed-fix-orpean. ('water'; 'wet'). Also related through an Indo-European root to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vavj. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless, odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound to date and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because it can dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it does not dissolve non-polar substances poorly. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, naturally occurring water almost always contains a variety of dissolved substances, and special measures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. countries
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that makes it liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create tremendous pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it shows the normal behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and forms ice on the surface that floats on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes die in winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important component of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve significant interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water at the surface can turn into vapor by evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost deposits on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by settling on aerosol particles or an ice core. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure to sublimate the ice on its surface. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances expand in volume when melting occurs, so the melting point increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting point decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under a sufficiently thick volume of ice, resulting in the formation of subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase is much less dense than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the ocean depths or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. At hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at an altitude of 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
A pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) has curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is located at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to determine the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which differ significantly from those of ambient water) are density sensitive. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and precipitation of minerals. Ice and water phases
The common form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. For the year 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic phase of ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of solid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When ice is sandwiched between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to sense it. However, water from conventional sources (including mineral water) usually contains a lot of dissolved substances, which can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool, where the source of light is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color may also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of the lower tones in water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. A length of about 25 μm is required to observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solution around 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm). Likewise, the cuvette should be both transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the materials commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample chamber. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below a depth of 1,000 meters (3,300 feet). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass types (1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners have lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In an ideal tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide, which make fizzy drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules forms protein folding, DNA base pairing and other vital phenomena (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils, and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds, such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its extremely high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in regulating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds at about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of these are due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% are semi-covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the resulting solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by dissolving small amounts of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be broken down into hydrogen and oxygen elements by passing an electric current through them, a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy than the heat released in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10–3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km per 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers - glaciology, inland waters - limnology, and the distribution of oceans - oceanography. Ecohydrology focuses on ecological processes with hydrology. The total mass of water on, below, and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate volume of water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water in the atmosphere also exists in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater influences failure patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms the many types of sedimentary rock that form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as sea runoff, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration over land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation at a rate of 119 Tt per year over the earth takes several forms: most often rain, snow and hail, accompanied by fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor comes into contact with a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to form a rainbow. Runoff often accumulates over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, forming river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land that is usually low-lying is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a lack of water supply. This occurs when a region's rainfall is consistently below average, either due to its topography or latitudinal location. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, as well as ice and snow. Of the total volume of fresh water in the world, about 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The storage life of water is highly variable: some aquifers consist of thousands of years of stored water, but the volume of lakes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant portion of the water supply for some regions is derived from stored water, and when withdrawals exceed replenishment, supplies decline. According to some estimates, as much as 30% of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)), and its density increases as the temperature drops to the freezing point, instead of reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. In the large seas, water salinity ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its exceptionally high salinity levels of 30 to 40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and create fluctuating currents known as tidal currents. The change in tides that occurs at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, as well as the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of sea coast that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are essential for the spread of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately enables replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve, and as an essential component of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (with the help of energy, which requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (such as starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (such as glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids, which are used as fuel for energy use or for other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−), to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative hydrogen ion concentration window) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have a pH value less than 7, while bases have a pH value greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungs, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates have a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in an aquatic habitat, most of them have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 CE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong can be explained in part by their easy reach by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports such as Singapore have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East where water is less scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not safe to drink but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is referred to by various names other than potable or potable water and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Swimming water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the conversion of wastewater (most commonly wastewater, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of domestic wastewater is produced annually worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource that is recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures to access it come from a naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people worldwide do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all domestic wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, which account for about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate to severe water scarcity, and 17 of them extract more water each year than is stored in natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
Most human water use is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total water consumption. In the United States, 42% of the freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) is used for agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have complex water systems for water collection, treatment and delivery, as well as wastewater disposal. But increasing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water problems, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, as consumption of water-hungry meat increases, and as new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries grow, new water challenges are likely. The International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted a 2007 Agricultural Water Management Assessment to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and identified areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity prevents institutions from meeting the demand for water. The report found that it will be possible to produce the necessary food in the future, but that continuing current trends in food production and the environment would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water shortage is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton, equivalent to a pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. There has been significant environmental damage: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amudarya and Syrdarya rivers for cotton production largely led to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one-hundredth of a meter and at the melting temperature of ice." However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, was needed, the kilogram. Therefore, work was commissioned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Although the established gram definition defined water at 0 °C (32 °F) (a highly reproducible temperature), the scientists chose to redefine the standard and measure at the temperature of the highest density of water, which at the time was measured as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally determined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is composed mainly of hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16 isotopes, but there are also some heavier oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) isotopes. The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of the water. River and lake water tend to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Standard water is therefore defined in the Vienna Standard Medium Ocean Water Specification. About drinking
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water depending on age, gender and body size, although it can range from 45% to 75% in individuals. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is ingested through food or drink other than plain water. The medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss during exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress, such as exercise, can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 impfl oz; 17 US fl oz) per meal, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945, issued by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council, stated: "The usual standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The most recent Dietary Reference Report by the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water for women, which is 9% water of total water intake. enrollment in the survey. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends an average consumption of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), while breastfeeding women should drink 3 liters (12 cups), especially as large amounts of fluid are lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that typically about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is released from the body in several ways; through urine and faeces, through perspiration and exhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and the daily fluid requirement may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleaches; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less commonly as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds that are closely related to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these features are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Oxygenated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. It is particularly efficient at transferring heat through evaporation and condensation of water because of its high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized faster with raw water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and a cooling fluid (used to exchange excess heat to the water body or to carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants make the largest use of water. In the nuclear industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the regulator. This provides a sort of passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred for stopping the reaction, and it is preferable to keep the core core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also consider the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in enclosed spaces, and a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coke graphite, split the water to produce gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water involved came not from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metal and alkaline earth metal oxides, generate so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline oxide slaked lime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they get wet, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. Rest
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as hockey and ice skating are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and sight of flowing water to be soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature, either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water sector provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, cisterns for collecting rainwater, water supply networks and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, obtained from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Thus, building more wells in appropriate locations is a possible way to extract more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require treatment for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced methods, such as reverse osmosis. Abundant seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water supply systems, delivered by tankers or as bottled water. Many governments have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using potable (drinking) water only for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the greatest abuse of water; to the extent that the polluter restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other forms of pollution, it is not part of the standard market cost accounting because it is considered an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, a suspension of solids in an aqueous suspension, or use water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water that require a dedicated water source and often result in significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity derived from hydropower. Hydroelectric power is obtained from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Usually, a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water that emerges from the lake is forced through turbines that spin generators. Pressurized water is used in waterjet jets and waterjet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used to cool machines to prevent overheating or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and equipment, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial purposes is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications, and various treatment methods are used for both water supply and disposal. The digital industry, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of artificial intelligence could "threaten global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in food science. Dissolved substances such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacteria stop growing at low water activity levels. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. This can significantly affect the quality of the product and also plays a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified by the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (USA). According to a report published by Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that environmental factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is included in the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
in the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When the outflow of this material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water forms rapidly in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report was published about the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery suggests that water has been common in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar components. Water vapor
Water vapor is present in:

Solar atmosphere: in detectable quantities
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: A small amount
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and its companion Europe
Saturn's atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (submarine ocean)
Uranus atmosphere - in small amounts below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deepest layers
Atmospheres of exoplanets: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: Not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circular disks: including more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Mars also sometimes has liquid water in small quantities. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in Enceladus' Saturnian moons as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water in the form of ice is located on:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported that NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper detected water molecules on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa, as well as the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: A planet in the ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it's probably also located in:

Mercury poles
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the inner structure of Uranus and Neptune, and water in the deepest layers may exist as ionic water, where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water, where oxygen crystallizes but hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and Planetary Habitability
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms on Earth is crucial to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer to the Sun or farther from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. Earth's size also matters: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or non-existent atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively uniform surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report issued in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, demand for water will exceed supply by 50% in some developing regions of the world. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe source of water. It is estimated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. hampered by bad governance and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been as effectively taken up by donors in the water sector as in education and health, potentially resulting in multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments not being empowered to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cited poor management as one of the causes of some types of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply “projects” that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. One example is the Mekong River; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water supply found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation services. By 2050, people in cities (2.4 billion) will face water shortages. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries experiencing high or critical water stress. However, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute of Water Management implements projects aimed at using efficient water management for poverty alleviation. Water-related conventions include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day is on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered an era of "Water Bankruptcy", as more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries where water is insecure, 4 billion people experience water shortages and water shortages for at least one month a year. 307 billion USD per year. It called for policies that correspond to reality and not to the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
In most religions, water is considered a purifier. Faiths that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion) of a person in water is the main sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (ghusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, many religions, including Islam and Judaism, perform a ritual bath in pure water for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is available (see Taymmum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (such as the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water blessed by a priest to baptize, bless people, places and objects, or ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and considered it the ilem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, denser than water, rose from the water. Thales, a monist, further believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron - easy to flow compared to the cubic earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associated water with phlegm because it is cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems use water as an example. James Ledge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like water. The excellence of water is that it benefits all things and takes the low place, not striving for (the opposite) which all men dislike. Hence (its way) is close to (its) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet in attacking hard and strong things there is nothing that can surpass it—for there is nothing (so effective) to change it.” Guanzi “Shui di” 水地 is a water symbol which further describes water. the natural characteristics of the people of different regions of China to the nature of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic tales as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The fountain of youth is associated with the concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's landmark modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the "Ithaca" chapter is structured like a catechism with 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Hymn of Water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous series of facts," rather its phrases, like their subject matter, "ebb and flow, ebb and flow, gather and break, until they subside into the calm silence that concludes 'plagued marshes, faded flower-water, frozen pools in the waning moon.'" and, according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat, bringing out in poetry all the clutter of dirty information accumulated in textbooks". The literary motif of water reflects the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life", and the hymn is the climax of the motif in the novel. The hymn is quoted in full below. What did Bloom, the water-lover, the water-sucker, the water-carrier who returns to the range, admire in the water? Its universality: its democratic equality and tenacity to its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unfathomable depth in the Sundam trench,0 surging waves,0 Pacific0. and particles of the surface visiting all the points of the coast in turn: its independence of units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic calmness in calms: its hydrokinetic rigidity in areas and spring tides: its sinking after devastation: its sterility in circumpolar ice-caps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance over land3. The globe: its undisputed hegemony extending in square lines over the whole region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multiworld stability of its primordial basin: its luteofulvous bed: its power to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble matter, including millions of tons of precious metals: its slow erosions: all the peninsulas downward erosions: all the peninsulas. volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and highland streams: its gradation of color in stormy, temperate and cold zones: its vehicle branches in continental lacustrine streams and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and sea currents: in gulfs, northern currents and transoceanic currents: watercourses, artesian wells, eruptions, currents, eddies, currents, currents, currents, watersheds, separations of water, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast surrounding surfaces of the earth, its vast surrounding territories, its hidden, horizontal late curves: rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments characterized by a well with a hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of its composition, two hydrogen components with one oxygen component: its medicinal properties: its buoyancy in waters, the flowing sea, its permeability. inadequate dams, leaks on board: its qualities for purification, thirst-quenching, and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapor, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in firm hydrants: its diversity of forms in firm and bed and bed and bed. lagoons, and atolls, and archipelagos, and sounds, and fjords, and tidal estuaries, and arms of the sea: its hardness in glaciers, icebergs, ice floods: its obedience to water-mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachers, batteries, tanneries, if navigable, floating, and engraving docks: its potential arising from harnessed tides or watercourses, falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerical if not literal inhabitants of the globe: its omnipresence as 90% of the dirty human body: plague swamps, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Frederica Foster curated The Value of Water at New York's Cathedral of St. John the Divine, which underpinned the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornick, Kiki Smith, Pat Stair, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresa Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, a collective of ecological artists who use water as a subject or medium. Participants include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stecy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact clean water can have on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that make fun of scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983 when an April 1st article appeared in a Durand, Michigan newspaper. The false story included concerns about the safety of the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used as a sort of catchphrase or adlib by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Thornes' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Fact Sheet
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
A portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary