Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the Earth's temperature and pressure is relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended drops of water and ice, its solid state. If it is finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (which consist of ice and liquid water suspended in the air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by ships through seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Alsatian watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wudixed-or, 'water' root form, from 'wudd-or,'. Also through the Indo-European root connected with the Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water, as it is found in nature, almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. States
Along with oxidan, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two general states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Dense
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools in certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so while liquid. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contraction and becomes denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water sinks at 4 °C (39 °F), and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from solidifying. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die in the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a remarkable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water at its surface can change to steam by evaporation (evaporation through the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice core. In the process of freeze drying, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      p
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point drops by 1 °C every 274 meters. High-altitude cooking takes longer than sea-level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the cooking temperature. Boil the water in a vacuum at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is located at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 Pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in various applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions with organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms different crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more have been theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, Ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in the mouth, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the drinkability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies to a swimming pool, for example, if the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower harmonics of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is needed. Also the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental oscillations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because the sun's rays can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5° angle with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. On the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form a 109.5° angle, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The OH bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena that are crucial for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the van der Waals force that attracts molecules in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent OH bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move down a narrow tube against gravity. This property is applied by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed for most purposes to be incompressible: its compressibility is between 4.4 and 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers only 1.8% in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Responsiveness
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or puddle. The majority of water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater and aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects patterns of faults. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. Deposition of the transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks that make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, ground water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

Evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. Precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the earth or ocean. Runoff from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration from land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, has different forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contribution of fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that condense when a high density of water vapor hits a cool surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Water runoff often collects over waterways that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of its water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source for drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stock" and "liquid". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, in ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet ones. A significant fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decrease. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water for irrigation comes from unsustainable withdrawal of groundwater, which causes groundwater pollution. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important aspects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of sea that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutions dissolve and as an essential component of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (using energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg starches, triglycerides and proteins ​​​​for the storage of fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg glucose, fatty acids and amino acids to use as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is fundamental to photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and oxygen is released. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to absorb the sun's energy and reform water into CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, meaning a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the earth are filled with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must periodically come to the surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated water, including breathing tubes (see Insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (carcinus). However, as invertebrate life has evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and large waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking, but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing, is called by various names other than potable water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm chlorine not yet reacted with impurities for bathing water). Water for bathing can be kept in satisfactory microbiological condition with chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in nations with water scarcity, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressure on access to it results from the natural uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and rising populations. Currently, almost one billion people worldwide lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of them extract more water every year than is recharged by their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The most significant human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and deliver water, and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are raising concerns about water issues, leading to an increase in competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of flooding. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries rise, new water demands are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and identified places suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. A further 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet demand for water. The report stated that it would be possible to produce the necessary food in the future, but that the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing demands for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - the equivalent of a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water shortages. Considerable environmental damage was caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard was required, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram. Therefore, the work was set up to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram of water specified at 0 °C (32 °F) - a highly reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest water density, which at the time was measured as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mainly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of the heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is obtained through food or drinks other than drinking water directly. Medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for an average male, excluding extra requirements due to fluid loss through exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water consumption, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at meals, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "A normal standard for some people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest Dietary Reference Intake Report of the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal; 0.71 US gal) of water for a total of 9% water for 9% water. Intake in the survey. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men drink an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during nursing. Also noted is that usually about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in various forms; through urine and feces, through sweating, and through exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solvents are acceptable and even desirable to provide flavor enhancement and necessary electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was also observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen saturated supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water may even be available naturally from a lake or the sea. It is particularly effective in transporting heat through evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are more quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange the waste heat to a body of water or to transport it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are favored to stop a reaction and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguisher. The evaporation of the water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which occurs when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as various metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coke-graphite, decompose the water, producing water. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water did not come from fire fighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core turned water into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in the reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can be flammable because their contents react with water. free time
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy leisure time. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water to be soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to crystallize either as ice or snow at a low temperature. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, cisterns for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water purification plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are in development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate places is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers provide an adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are filtering with sand, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. The distribution of drinking water is done via municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need for free. Reducing use by using drinking water (potable water) only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Polluted water may be the single greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, there is a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard calculation of market costs, and is considered an externality for which the market cannot account. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater are typically treated at wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions with chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries or water used to dissolve and extract substances, or wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, require a special water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in energy production. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water power. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. The energy is provided by the movement of the water. Typically, a dam is built on a river creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water jets and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in the cooling of machines to prevent overheating, or overheating of the saw blades. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses a lot of water, so AI expansion "threatens global and national water security". food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers water's freezing point. Solutes in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes and food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10 ^ 3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10 ^ 3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress the gas and heat it. The water observed is rapidly produced in this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "The discovery shows that water has spread almost its entire existence in the universe". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, since its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and those of other star systems, most other planetary systems probably have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in the exosphere of Mercury
Venus atmosphere: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above full atmosphere, typically 1-4% at the surface
Lunar atmosphere: in trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% in Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus's south polar surface, in titanium, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an underlying liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by the NASA Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And is also probably present on:

Mercury's poles
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatile substances probably contain much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water, in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are essential for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were a little closer to or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that would allow all three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air humidity. Small planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource throughout the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will be water-based vulnerable. A report released in November 2009 states that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by the water sector donors as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors on overlapping projects and recipient governments without empowerment to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for various forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions regarding water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply "blueprints" that work in the developed world to developing places and contexts. The Mekong river is one example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also discovered that Cambodia's water law was much more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has given decision-makers tools to develop a sustainable water policy. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to potable water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safe managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. But over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute conducts projects with the goal of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Ocean Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "water bankruptcy", as more than 50% of great lakes have receded since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, at least 4 billion people experience, 4 Billions of people per month experience. $307 billion per year. It called for a policy that conformed to reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also a part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing different parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (e.g. in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and considered it the ylem or basic substance of the universe. Thales, who portrayed Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from the water. Thales, a monist, continued to believe that everything is made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors is water associated with phlegm, as cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its beneficence to all things, and in its possession, without arguing (on the contrary), the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things, which are firm and strong, there is nothing that can take precedence of it - for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水laboratory chapter on water, further proclaims to attribute the symbol of water and the natural qualities of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of the local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical water that supposedly prevents aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather its expressions, such as its subject, "Eb a Flow, Heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the calme quiescence of the conclusive 'pestilential fens, faded flowers water in the stagnant pools" are to be considered. notable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieved "the improbable success of raising to poetry all the cutters of footling information collected in schoolbooks." The literary motif water represents the theme of the novel "eternal, eternal life", and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What in the water did Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, water carrier back to the range admired? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature to seek its own level: its wisdom in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumed depth in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 surface and the fatlessness of its surface: if more than 8,00000000000 visitors. carries all points of its seaboard: the independence of its units: the changeability of the sea states: its hydrostatic calmness and tranquility: its hydrokinetic turgidity in the near and spring time: its decline after the destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar ice caps, arctic and antarctic: its predominance of climatic and commercial designations over the land 3 globes: its indisputable hegemony, which is in square leagues extending over the whole region below the subequatorial Tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosions in the peninsulas: its slow erosions in the peninsulas: in volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns: its gradation of colors in the breezy and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular impacts and continental lakes include streams and confluent ocean-flowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf stream, north and sea water: gulf quaviolence, north and sea. artesian wells, eruptions, currents, eddies, freshets, spades, terrain wells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its large circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its secretary in sources, and latently illustrated by the well through the hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate, saturation of the air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two components of hydrogen with one component of oxygen: its healing virtues: its difficulty in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetrative in runnels, dam vessels, for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as smoke, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength and rigid hydrants: its variety of forms and Dogs and bays and gulfs and bays and gardens and lagoons and sounds and sounds and sounds and sounds and sounds and sounds Tides and weapons of the sea: its solidity and glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility to hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleaching plants, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, float and dig from the potential of the waterways to the waterways: level: its submarine fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in the lacustrine swamps, pestilential flags, faded flower water in the stagnant lunar water. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, in the Cathedral of St. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation, which has been declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name was used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' song "Florida Water" from 2023. See also
Notes
References
works cited
Continue reading
External links

The World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and associated publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary