Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main creator of the earth’s rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the water of all known organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Because water is a polar molecule, it experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which contributes significantly to its physical and chemical properties. Even if they are non-energy foods or non-organic micronutrients, they are essential to every known form of life. Because of its presence in all living organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the surface temperature and pressure are close to the triple point of water, water exists in the earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms raindrops as raindrops and aerosols as snow. Clouds consist of solid state suspended droplets of water and snow. When cut well, crystalline ice can freeze. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the earth’s surface, and oceans and seas make up most of the water (approximately 96.5%). Small amounts of water exist as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice caps in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (frozen ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continues to move through water cycles of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fisheries in salt and fresh water bodies were and remain a substantial food source in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ship via sea, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for industrial and domestic heating and cooling. Water is an excellent solvent for minerals and organics; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, snow, and ice are also important in many different sports and recreational activities, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology (Etymology).
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffixed form of also from the root *wed-. (‘water’; ‘wet’). It is also related, via Indo-European roots, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. History
On earth
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid that is nearly colorless and contains blue. It is the simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, the most studied chemical compound, and is sometimes referred to as the "universal solvent" because it dissolves more substances than any other liquid, but it dissolves nonpolar substances poorly. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, as found in nature, water almost always contains a variety of dissolved substances, and special efforts are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Under normal Earth conditions, water is the only solid, liquid, and gas that exists. States of the United States
In addition to oxidants, water is one of two official names for the chemical compound H2O; It is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two general forms of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, which is water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). There is density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense when heated within certain temperature ranges; it is the only naturally occurring substance known to do so while liquid. Moreover, although it is not unique in that respect, it is remarkable in that it becomes noticeably less dense as it dries. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water is heated to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and freezes, the water expands by about 9% to a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid it shows the usual tendency to contract and become more dense as it cools. These unique thermal properties have important implications for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on the surface of the water. This ice insulates the water below and prevents it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most marine life would go extinct in the summer. In addition, this unusual feature is an important component of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet’s oceans. Magnetism is the norm
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can have a significant interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase changes
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), water boils at 100 °C (212 °F) or vapor condenses. However, even below the boiling point, water can be converted to vapor at the surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. Frost, for example, forms in cold climates, whereas snowflakes are formed by impact on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then subjected to low pressure so that the ice on it sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L. He was very confused
                    
                  
                  − is the answer
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L. He was very confused
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where is it 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L. He was very confused
          
        
      
    
    {\a appearance v_{\text{L}}}. and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}. are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, respectively; 
  
    
      
        
          L. He was very confused
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}. is the molar latent heat of melting. In most cases, when melting occurs, the volume increases, so the melting temperature increases as the pressure increases. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. On glaciers, pressure melting can occur under a sufficiently thick volume of ice to form a subglacial lake. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with a liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Even extremely cold water in the deep ocean or underground can be in a liquid state. For example, at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F). In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the temperature of the water is 100 °C (212 °F). As the atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired results. Conversely, pressure cookers can be used to reduce the cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, the water will cool to room temperature. Triple and critical points
The pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) shows the separation curves of solid and vapor, vapor and liquid, and liquid and solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); the lowest possible pressure of liquid water. Until 2019, the Kelvin temperature scale is based on triple points. The water/vapor phase curve terminates at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can slowly compress or expand between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (in contrast to ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures, it can be freely mixed with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry, and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. It acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals in the Earth's mantle. Ice and water phases
The usual form of ice on the surface is ice Ih, and this phase forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, may exist in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice develops other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several theoretically predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centred-cubic, superionic ice phase, forms when a drop of water is hit by a shock wave that raises water pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperatures to thousands of degrees. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water remain unknown; some theories attribute its unusual behavior to the presence of two liquid states. Sweet and fragrant
Clean water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, but humans have special sensors to detect water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, ordinary water sources (including mineral water) usually have a lot of dissolved substances that can give them a variety of flavors and aromas. Humans and other animals have the sense to assess the drinkability of water to avoid consuming water that is too salty or salty. Color and appearance
Clear water is visibly red because it absorbs light into the region c. in the range of 600–800 nm. The color is easily seen in a glass of tap-water on a pure white background, in daylight. The main color-producing absorption bands are the overtones of O–H stretching vibrations. Following the law of beer, the apparent intensity of the color increases as the depth of the well increases. This applies, for example, to a swimming pool, where the source of light is sunlight reflecting off the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the lower overtones of water are more intense and short glass cuvette path-lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solutions in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Additionally, the cuvette should be transparent and water-insoluble at about 3500 cm−1; calcium fluoride is one of the commonly used aqueous solutions for cuvette windows. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in hundreds of meters of water because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches areas below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) of ocean depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and glass types (1.4 to 1.6). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. There is a molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are located close to the corners of the oxygen centered tetrahedron. The other two corners contain lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have tetrahedral molecular structures, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, because oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge, while the hydrogen atom has a partial positive charge. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment, classifying it as a polar molecule. Water is an excellent polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugar and the simple alcohol ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, including oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz to carbonated beverages, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules is responsible for protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other hydrophobic effects essential for life. Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, which means they are insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including metal oxides, sulfides, and most silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules in the liquid or solid state. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that hold molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other analogous compounds like hydrogen sulfide. The high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)) were also explained. These properties make water more capable of slowing the Earth’s atmosphere by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to 492 kJ/mol for covalent O–H bonds). Of that, 90% is estimated to be due to electrostatics, and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH− accompanied by solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electric conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when a small amount of ionic material such as common salt is dissolved. Water water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen elements by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Water water can be considered incompressible in most cases: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in a 4-km-deep ocean with a pressure of 400 atm, the water loses only 1.8% of its volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with very little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), which cetaceans and humans exploit for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). The ability to perform reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially alkali metals and to a lesser extent alkaline earth metals, absorb hydrogen from water to form hydroxides and release hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the flow, distribution, and quality of water on a global scale. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of groundwater distribution and movement is hydrogeology, glaciology is glaciology, inland waters is limnology, and ocean distribution is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the main concern of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water above, below, and above the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth’s water capacity (total world water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Aquatic water is found in oceans, oceans, lakes, rivers, streams, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water in the world is ocean water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also occurs as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks and this groundwater pressure influences faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that forms volcanoes in subduction zones. At the surface, water plays an important role in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for much of the transport of sediment over land. The deposition of transported sediment produces a variety of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through these areas and the water cycle involves the following transfer processes:

evaporation in the atmosphere from oceans and other waters and transpiration from terrestrial plants. precipitation, resulting from condensing water from the atmosphere and falling on land or sea. runoff from land usually reaches the ocean. Most of the excess water vapor found in the ocean returns there, but the wind carries water vapor to the surface as well as the ocean currents, about 47 Tt per year, and up to evaporation and transpiration in the land mass contributes an additional 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, which falls on the earth at about 119 Tt per year, takes many forms: mostly rain, snow, and sleet, with some due to snow and precipitation. Dew is a tiny droplet of water that condenses when the high density of water vapor meets the moist soil. Dew typically occurs during the hottest parts of the morning, just before sunrise and when soil temperatures begin to rise. Condensed water in the air can also distort sunlight and create rainbows. Run-off water often occurs over ponds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff creates an environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level soil for the establishment of human settlements. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually a low-lying area, is flooded, such as when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. Drought, on the other hand, is a long period of months or years when a region feels its water shortage. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall due to its topography or latitude. Water management
Water resources are natural resources that can be used for human use, for example, drinking water or irrigation. Water exists both as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as streams, freshwater, groundwater or aquifers, and snow and ice. An estimated 69 percent of the world’s total freshwater volume is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in streams, rivers, air and biota. Water storage periods are highly variable: some aquifers are composed of thousands of years of water storage, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during the rainy season and increasing during the wet season. A large portion of the water supply in some areas is drawn from water stored in stocks, and when extraction exceeds recharge, stocks decline. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from continuous groundwater extraction, which can contaminate groundwater. Ocean water and tides
Seawater contains an average of 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from those of fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with cooling up to the freezing point, with maximum density not reached at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of the oceans ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclic rising and falling of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun on the Ocean. Tides change the depth of ocean and coastal waters and create oscillating currents known as tidal streams. The fluctuating tides generated at a given location are due to changes in the positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the influence of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. A strip of seabed that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone is an important ecological product of the ocean floor. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are essential for the proliferation of life. It performs this function by rearranging organic compounds in ways that ultimately enable replication. Every known form of life depends on water. Water is important as a solvent in which many substances are dissolved in the body and in many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is a combination of both anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed as molecules (using the energy required for enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or for other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes are not possible. Water is also essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to split water hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (from air or water) to form glucose and oxygen is released. All living cells use such fuels, oxidizing hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and regenerating water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is central to both acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a donor of hydrogen ions (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a proton acceptor such as a base, hydroxide ion (OH−), to form water. Water is assumed to be neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal state. Acids have pH values lower than 7 while bases have values higher than 7. Aquatic species
The surface waters are full of life. The first forms of life appeared in water; nearly all fish live exclusively in water, and there are several species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some animal species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants like kelp and algae thrive in the water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the mainstay of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates require oxygen to survive and do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, but some species of fish, like lungfish, have both. Marine mammals like dolphins, whales, otters, and seals have to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a variety of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, being an evolved aquatic invertebrate life, most have little or no specialization in aquatic respiration. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished on rivers and lakes; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the mighty rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) flourished along the banks of the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian River Tiber. Cities like Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owed their success to easy access by water and consequent increased trade. Islands with safe water harbors, like Singapore, also thrive in the same way. In regions such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to safe drinking water is and remains a critical factor for human development. Health and environmental pollution
Water sufficient for human consumption is called drinking water or drinking water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not dangerous to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and sometimes clean water, or "safe for swimming." Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant and is safe for swimming or drinking water. Its use is highly technical and usually governed by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of chlorine that does not react with sewage for bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (often called sewage, municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal waste is generated worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by natural hydrologic cycles, but pressures on its availability are due to naturally uneven distribution in space and time, increasing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, approximately one billion people around the world lack access to clean, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal is uneven, in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of universal access to clean and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are causes of death with five million deaths a year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million childhood deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. Almost 50 countries with about one-third of the world’s population also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than they recharge through their natural water cycles. This strain not only affects clean surface water bodies like lakes and rivers, but also contaminates groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture is the field
Most human water use is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation purposes, but most of the water "used" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developing countries that have developed sophisticated water infrastructure to collect, treat, and transmit water and to dispose of wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic and climatic pressures have led to increased water concerns, which have led to increased competition for fixed water resources, which has given rise to the concept of peak water. New water challenges are likely due to population and economy growth, increased consumption of saltwater meat, and new demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries. The assessment of agricultural water use was carried out in 2007 by the Sri Lanka-based International Water Management Institute to determine if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. He analyzed the current water availability for global agriculture and mapped areas affected by water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion people, live in areas where water is physically scarce, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or a lack of manpower makes it impossible for the authorities to meet the water demand. The report finds that it will be possible to produce enough food in the future, but that continuing today’s food production and environmental protection will lead to problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industry and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by water-loving products. Cotton, for example: It takes 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of two pairs of jeans. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world’s water consumption, the water is being used in areas that are already under water scarcity. There is a great deal of environmental damage: for example, the diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers by the former Soviet Union to produce cotton is a major cause of the disappearance of the Aral Sea. According to scientific standards
On 7 April 1795, in France, the gram was stated to be equivalent to "one volume of pure water, equivalent to one hundredth of a meter cube, and the total weight at the temperature of melted ice." However, its practicality requires a metallic reference standard, which is a thousand times larger than the kilogram. Work was therefore undertaken to determine the exact weight of water per litre. Gram’s descriptive instructions listed water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a high reproducible temperature—yet the scientists chose to reinvent the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of water’s highest density, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, which is defined as an exact 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019, it is more dependent on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale in increments equal to the Celsius temperature scale, originally based on the boiling point of water (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water is composed primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also in small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is small, but still affects water properties. Water from rivers and streams tends to have fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking alcohol
The human body is, on average, 50–60% water depending on age, gender and body size, but individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends daily fluid intakes of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of these are consumed through food and drink other than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors a smaller intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, not including any additional needs due to fluid loss due to exercise or heat. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of fluid per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary while exercising, creating the risk of hyperhydration, which can lead to death. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that excessive fluid intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Drinking plenty of fluids helps prevent constipation. The first recommendation on water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council in 1945 read: "The normal standard for all types of people is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." 19% of total water consumption in the US survey. Pregnant and lactating women especially need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactation to 3 liters (12 cups), especially since significant fluid loss occurs during lactation. It is also worth noting that typically about 20% of water intake comes from food and beverages, with the remainder coming from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water leaves the body in various forms; through urine and faeces, through sneezing, and through aspiration of respiratory fluids. Water loss due to physical exertion and heat will increase, and daily water requirements may increase. Humans need water with minimal impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Certain solutes are acceptable and even desirable to enhance the flavor and to provide necessary electrolytes. One of the best sources of fresh water for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Silfai
Transportation issues
Chemical applications
Water is widely used as a solvent or reactant in chemical reactions, not as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and water-miscible compounds. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions, because the reactants dissolve poorly and are amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these properties are sometimes desirable. It was also observed that water accelerates the Diels-Alder reaction. Supercritical water has been the subject of much research in recent years. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water effectively burns organic pollutants. Changes in heat
Water and steam are commonly used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Hot water may be obtained naturally from a river or ocean. Especially the vaporization and condensation of water to transport heat is very efficient because of the large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry like steel and copper are oxidized faster with untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed-loop between boilers, steam turbines and condensers), and as a coolant (converting waste heat to a body of water or transporting it by evaporation to a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest consumers of water. Water can also be used as a neutron moderator in the nuclear power industry. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a sort of passive safety measure, and removing water from the reactor also slows nuclear reactions. But other methods are preferred for stopping the reaction, preferably keeping the nuclear core covered with water to keep it cool enough. Fire to consider
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it an excellent firefighting liquid. When water evaporates, it carries heat away from the fire. The use of water on fires involving oil and organic solvents is dangerous because large amounts of organic material float on the surface of the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water for firefighting should also consider the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on hot fires in large areas, hydrogen explosives, water-reactive materials, certain metals or hot carbon like coal, charcoal, or coke graphite. Such explosive forces were observed in the Chernobyl disaster, but the water involved in this case came from the reactor's cooling water system, not from the firefighting system. The steam explosion occurs when the core overheats and the water evaporates into steam. Hydrogen explosions can be caused by reactions between steam and hot zirconium. Certain metallic oxides, most notably alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate intense heat when they react with water, creating a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced product often transported in paper bags. When these are immersed in water, they can ignite as the contents react with water. In terms of sports
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sport. Some of these include swimming, waterskiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on the ice. Lakeside, beaches and water parks are popular destinations for relaxation and recreation. Many people find the sound and appearance of running water very peaceful, and fountains and other fountains are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be in the form of ice or crystallized into snow at low temperatures. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water supply sources include wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks, and water treatment plants, wells, water towers, water pipes, as well as old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected in wells, drawn from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from rivers and streams. The construction of more wells in suitable locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water are rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This can involve the removal of insoluble materials, debris and harmful microbes. A popular method is to filter through sand, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of large quantities of seawater is a more expensive solution used in hot and humid coastal climates. Distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, tanker delivery or in the form of bottled water. In many countries, governments have programs to distribute free water to the poor. Reducing the use of drinking water (potable water) only for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve clean water. Water pollution is perhaps the biggest single misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits another use of water, whatever the benefit to the polluter becomes a waste. Like other forms of pollution, this does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs and is treated as externalities that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, others pay for the polluted water, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local people who suffer from this pollution. Consumption of drugs by humans often ends up in waterways and if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable, they can have negative effects on aquatic life. Municipal and industrial wastes are usually treated in sewage treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is achieved through a variety of preventive and management strategies. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries, or water-based dilution and removal of materials or washing of products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and heating power plants use large amounts of water, require dedicated water sources, and often result in severe water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water. Hydroelectric power comes from the water that drives the water turbine connected to the generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, environmentally friendly, renewable energy source. Energy is supplied by water motion. Usually a dam is built over the river followed by an artificial lake. Water flowing from the lake is forced through a turbine which turns a generator. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. The high pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It works well, is relatively safe and environmentally friendly. It is also used to prevent machinery from overheating or saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, as a chemical solvent in steam turbines and heat exchangers. Raw water discharges from industrial uses are environmental pollutants. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various purification techniques in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence, consumes huge amounts of water, so the proliferation of AI could "threaten global and national water security." How to make food
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for dishwashing. Water also plays important roles within the field of food science. Solutes in water, such as salts and sugars, affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that exists at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the temperature of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F) and one mole of salt per kg raises the temperature of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F) Similarly, the increase in dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. The solutes in the water also affect the functioning of the water, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in the food. The work of water can be expressed as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water decrease water activity—this is important to note because most bacteria stop at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety but also food preservation and shelf life. Hard water is also an important part of food processing and can be altered or treated by chemical ion exchange systems. It can significantly affect the quality of the product, as well as play a role in waste disposal. Water hardness is distinguished by the amount of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a 2010 report by the Water Footprint organization, one kilogram of milk requires 15 thousand liters of water (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal); however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in dairy production. Medical uses
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the universe’s water is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by strong external winds of gas and dust. When this outflow eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves generated compress and heat the gas. The water found evaporates rapidly in this hot dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report stated that a massive cloud of water vapor "with 140 billion times more water than Earth's oceans combined" had been discovered around a quasar 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "The discovery suggests that water has been present in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water may be abundant in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems share common features. Water snowflakes
Water exists as vapor:

Solar atmosphere: in visible trace amounts
Mercury atmosphere: 3.4%, and Mercury exosphere contains large amounts of water
Venus atmosphere: 0.002%. Soil atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the total atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon atmosphere: at least
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%. Environment of Ceres
Jupiter atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and its moons in Europa
Saturn’s atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subterranean ocean)
Uranus atmosphere – in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – visible in deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to hotter stars, but can be found in massive hot stars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disk: More than half of T Tauri stars including AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. It is liquid water
Liquid water is present in the soil, covering about 71% of its surface area. Liquid water is also common on Mars in small amounts. Scientists believe that the Saturnian moon Enceladus contains liquid water, 10 kilometers deep in the ocean, 30–40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, on Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest a salty groundwater ocean. Jupiter's moon Ganymede may also contain liquid water as a layer sandwiched between high pressure ice and rock. It's ice water
Water is in the form of ice:

 Mars: under regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: specifically Earth and as ice sheets in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported in September 2009 that water molecules were detected by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres is the name
Moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other associated Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And maybe there is:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys is the name

There are exotic forms
Water and other variables probably comprise much of the interior of Uranus and Neptune, with deeper layers possibly as ionic water, where molecules dissociate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superionic water, where oxygen crystallizes but hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice it can be rotated. Water and planetary habitability
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, is essential for life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were closer to the Sun or farther away from the Sun (about 5%, or 8 million kilometers), the conditions for all three species to exist simultaneously would be rare. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity can hold air and then hold air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have little or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that, when present in sufficient quantities, helps maintain a constant surface temperature. The water composition of a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is large enough, the water on it can solidify at high temperatures, due to the high pressure due to gravity, as seen in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and conflict
Water politics is a politics influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a global strategic resource and an important factor in many political conflicts. It compromises health and destroys biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost every part of the world over the past two decades, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world’s population will face water shortages. One report, released in November 2009, predicted that by 2030, demand for water will exceed supply by 50% in some developed countries. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have access to safe water, and it is estimated that access to safe water in developing countries has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004, according to a 2006 United Nations report indicates that "there is enough water for everyone." however, its accessibility is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, initiatives to improve global aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by water sector donors as they have in education and health, leaving many project partners and recipient governments powerless to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cite poor governance as one of the causes of all forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes for water management decisions. Good water management is essentially about knowing what processes work best in a particular physical and social context. ‘Blueprints’ that work in the developed world are often mistaken by trying to apply them to developing parts and contexts of the world. The Mekong River is one example; An analysis of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong for water by the International Water Management Institute shows a lack of cost-benefit analysis and comprehensive and transparent environmental impact assessments. They also found that Cambodia’s water laws were more complex than necessary. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to inadequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two million people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will experience water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is described as endemic, due to overuse and pollution. According to the report, 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or severe water scarcity. However, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to continue at the same rate through 2050. Flooding in the tropics has quadrupled since 2000, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is estimated at 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Water conservation organizations include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects with the objective of using water efficiency to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Day for Water is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day is celebrated on June In 2026, the United Nations declares that humanity has entered an era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of rivers have dropped since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970. 75% of the world's population lives in water scarcity they face shortages, as well as droughts that cost them $307 billion a year. It calls for policies in line with reality rather than past norms. In terms of culture
Religious
In most religions, water is considered a purifier. Faiths that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person is the basic Sacrament of Christianity (there it is called baptism); it is also part of the rituals of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, many religions including Islam and Judaism have ritual baths in holy water for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can in most cases be performed after washing certain parts of the body with pure water (wudu), if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (e.g., in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for baptism, to bless people, places, and other things, or as a means of banishing sin. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. The philosophical side
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), as the ylem, or fundamental element of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, comes from water. Thales, the monist, further believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – a cube shape that flowed easily compared to the earth. The theory of the four shadows of the body associates water with phlegm, which is cold and wet. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements of ancient Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some of the oldest and most popular Asian philosophical systems take water as an example. In the 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing by James Legge, he said, "The highest virtue is like (that of) water. The virtue of water is manifested in its benefiting everything, and in occupying the low place that everyone dislikes without having to struggle (on the other side)." Therefore (his way) is (the way of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer or weaker than water, yet there is no precedent for attacking something firmer and stronger—for nothing (so successful) can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter further elaborates on the symbolism of water, . proclaiming that "man is water" and that the natural quality of the people in the Chinese regions is due to the Folklore characteristics of the local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy between living water and water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. It’s art and activism
In Ulysses (1922), an important modernist novel by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water poem." According to Richard E. Madtes, the poem is not just a "monotonous string of facts" but the words, like their titles, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the calm quiescence of the concluding 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" remarkable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, accomplishes "the inevitable feat of elevating to poetry all the footling information accumulated in school books." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "everlasting, ever-changing life," and the poem represents the novel's final motif. Below is the song in its entirety. What in water did Bloom, waterlover, drawer of water, watercarrier returning to the range, admire?Its universality: its democratic equality and persistence in finding its level: the vastness of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed depth of Sundam trench in the Pacific over 8,000 fathoms: its waves and surface particles visiting in turn all point of its seaboard: the independence of its units: the variability of states of sea: a hydrostatic quiescence in calm: a hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: a subsidence after devastation: a sterility in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its indisputable sway in the square league over all regions below the tropics: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to hold all moist substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and downward promontories: its alluvial deposits: a weight and volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarns: gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: vehicular ramifications in continental lakecontained streams and confluent oceanflowing rivers and their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: ocean its violence in earthquakes, springs, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: a vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: a secrecy in springs, and latent humidity, detected by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and illustrated by wells in walls at Ashtown gate, air saturation, dew distillation: simplicity of process, two hydrogen-producing sites and one oxygen-producing: healing properties: buoyancy in Dead Sea water: a persevering runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on shipboard penetrativeness: its properties are cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: a potentiality derivable from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, inhabiting the world: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, dehydrated flowers. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster wrote The Value of Water, an exhibit at the Cathedral of St. John the Baptist in New York City. He curated at John the Divine, which anchored the Cathedral’s year-long initiative on our water dependence. It is the largest exhibition at the Cathedral and features over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN Declaration on the Human Right to Water and Sanitation, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to demonstrate the impact clean water has on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct, but rarely used chemical name. The name has been used in a series of lies and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The lie is the safety concerns about the thing. Music
The word "water" has been used as a catchphrase or adlib by many Florida rappers. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs for Florida's water, like Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
Introduction
Works are listed
Read more and more
External links

World Water Data Page
Comprehensive FAO Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Science (USGS) . Portal of The World Bank Plans, Activities and Related Publications on Water
Added to Wayback Machine on 24 March 2018 by America Water Resources Association
The water is in the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the world", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam was added to the Wayback Machine on 27 September 2022
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary