Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is the main component of the Earth's rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living things, which acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known living organisms, although it does not provide energy for food or as organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, universal abundance, and the strong polarity of its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure on Earth's surface are close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as rock, liquid, and gas. It creates precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of mist. Clouds consist of suspended water droplets and ice, their solid nature. When properly distributed, ice crystals can fall like snow. The gas that contains water is steam or water vapor. Water covers 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas covering most of the water (about 96.5%). A small amount of water occurs as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice sheets in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (containing ice and water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through cycles of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries are an important food source for many parts of the world, and provide 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by ship across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for various substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, boating, sailing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water is from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wood-wet-na form. Also of Indo-European origin, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wāj. History
On earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic element. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most popular chemical compound and is sometimes referred to as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water that is found in nature is almost always composed of various dissolved substances, and special processes are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only natural substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal conditions on Earth. State
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: cooling (water to ice), melting (water to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (water vapor), sublimation (water to vapor) and freezing (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes more solid when it cools to a certain temperature; it is the only natural substance known to do so in the presence of water. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes lighter as it solidifies, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure it reaches 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (contracts more) until it reaches the freezing point, where the density of the liquid is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause massive pressure, burst pipes and cracked rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contraction and becomes harder as it cools. These unusual hot properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the water. This ice absorbs the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic life in the lake would die during the winter. Additionally, this unusual behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around Earth's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Even if the connection is weak, with superconducting magnets we can get a unique connection. Step by step
At one atmosphere of pressure (atm), water melts or freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can be converted into water vapor by evaporation (water vapor passes through the ice). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is placed in a cold place, and ice forms by settling on aerosol particles or nuclei. In freeze-drying, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on it freezes. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v__{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L__{\text{f}}}
  
 is the melting temperature of the molar. In most substances, volume increases as they melt, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is denser than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice, creating subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in water at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature at Old Faithful, a crater in Yellowstone National Park, exceeds 205 °C (401 °F). In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the temperature of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. High pressure cooking takes longer than sea cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to obtain the desired result. Conversely, pressure cookers can be used to reduce cooking time by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three points and critical
On the pressure/temperature diagram (see figure), there is a sequence that separates solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where the three processes can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascal (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); this is the lowest pressure at which water can flow. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature. The liquid/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be distributed or expand slowly between gas-like gas and liquid; its nature (which is different from that of the surrounding water) is very sensitive to density. For example, for the right pressure and temperature can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic substances. This makes it useful in various applications including electrochemistry at high temperatures and as an ecologically sound solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of surface ice is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, Ic Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms a different crystal structure. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and many more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, XVIII ice, the face-focused form of superionic ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, creating a rigid structure of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When ice is sandwiched between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical properties of runoff water are not well understood; There is a theory that the unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Fresh water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can give different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water in order to avoid water that is too salty or smelly. Color and shape
Pure water is clearly blue because of the absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main emission band responsible for the color is the O-H stretching vibrational wave. Color intensity increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source reflects the sun from the white tiles. In nature, the color can be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the lower density of water means that glass cuvettes with shorter lengths can be used. In order to observe the basic absorption level of water or aqueous solutions in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette should be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material that is used in the cuvette window with an aqueous solution. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with 1 cm sample cells, for example. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches areas of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.627). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. molecular polarity
In the water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners there are pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms have a negative partial charge while hydrogen atoms have a positive charge. With a bent structure, it gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also absorbs many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter gives rise to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living things, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils, and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonds
Because of its dissociation, water molecules in liquids or solids can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that hold molecules together in most liquids. This is the reason why water melts and boils faster than other substances like hydrogen sulfide. They also explain the specific heat (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), the heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), the heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and the thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the ocean and the atmosphere. The water bond is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O-H covalent bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is obtained from electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the high tension of water and the force of the disc. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise through a narrow channel against the force of gravity. This property depends on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O + + OH−, with the solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases by dissolving small ionic substances such as common salts. Liquid water can be broken down into hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity through it - a process called electrolysis. The loss requires more energy than the heat produced by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the amount of water decreases by only 1.8%. The density of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20°C (68°F), and the speed of sound in water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little compression, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that cetaceans and humans exploit for communication and environmental exploration (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, in general, the alkaline earth metals, transfer hydrogen to water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, land water is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. The process of ecology together with hydrology focuses on ecohydrology. The hydrosphere is the volume of water found on Earth's surface, underground, and on the planet's surface. The total amount of water on Earth (the total world water supply) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Flowing water is found in water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, streams, rivers, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor form. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure from that groundwater affects the shape of the fault. Water in the mantle is responsible for the combustion that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is responsible for transporting large amounts of sediment that occurs on Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments creates many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of nutrients within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, surface water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each area in the water cycle which includes the following steps:

evaporation from seas and other bodies of water into the air and the movement of land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor rising from the air and falling on land or sea. runoff often reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the oceans is returned there, but the wind brings water vapor to the earth's surface equal to the flow of water to the sea, about 47 Tt per year and evaporation and transpiration from the land surface brings 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on Earth, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when water vapor meets supercooled water vapor. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, before the sun rises and when the temperature of the earth begins to rise. Water vapor in the air can refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often accumulates on the surface of the river flowing into the river. Through erosion, the currents shape the landscape creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and plains for the construction of centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water, which occurs when the banks overflow or there is a thunderstorm. On the other hand, a drought is a period lasting a month or a year that marks a lack of water in an area. This occurs when an area receives consistently below average rainfall due to either topography or latitude. source of water
A water source is a natural source of water that can be useful to humans, for example, as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water appears as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, evaporation, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world's total fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in ice and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time the water is stored varies greatly: some bodies of water can be stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can vary seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large part of the water supply for some areas consists of water withdrawn from water stored in reservoirs, and when the withdrawal exceeds the recharge, the reservoir is depleted. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, resulting in water depletion. Sea and water
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some ways. It freezes at lower temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and expands with decreasing temperature toward freezing temperatures, but does not reach its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. Water hardness in the main seas varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise in local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun on the ocean. Floods cause changes in the depth of sea and estuarine water and create moving currents called currents. Changes in the tides produced at a location are the result of changes in the position of the Moon and Sun on the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The edge of the sea that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the tides. The consequences in life
Biologically, water has many unique properties that are essential for the growth of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately enables replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential to life as a solvent in which many solutes are dissolved in the body and as an essential part of the body's metabolic processes. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy-consuming enzymatic chemical reactions) to make larger molecules (for example, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes would not occur. Water is the basis of photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and convert hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and change water and CO2 in the process (cell metabolism). Water is also central to acid-base neutralization and enzyme activity. Acids, hydrogen ions (H+, i.e. protons) can be neutralized by bases, proton acceptors such as hydroxide ions (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in ideal conditions. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a pH value greater than 7. Aquatic organisms
The surface water is full of living things. The first living things appeared in water; almost all fish live alone in the water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the foundation of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in different ways. Fish have gills and not lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface from time to time to breathe. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. The lack of nutrition shows various modifications to survive in oxygen-free water, including breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrates have evolved in aquatic habitats, most of them do not have the special ability to breathe in water. The impact on human civilization
Civilizations have historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia was located between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, one of the so-called cradles of civilization; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also built on the banks of the Italian Tiber river. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are responsible for their success in part due to their accessibility by water and increased trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Potable water is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made by filtration or distillation, or by other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is undrinkable but not dangerous to humans when used for swimming or bathing is referred to by various names other than potable water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe, or "bathable" water. Chlorine boils the skin and mucous membranes that are used to make water for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually follows government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm uncontaminated chlorine in bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbial condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually wastewater, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be used for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, returned to the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressure to obtain it is caused by the natural distribution of water in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry and the growth of the population. Today, nearly one million people in the world do not have access to safe and secure water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to reduce the number of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving access to safe and affordable water and sanitation for all by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million people a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all urban wastewater remains untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with a third of the world's population, suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is returned through the natural water cycle. Stress not only affects freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also damages groundwater resources. Human use
Farming
The largest use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is used for irrigation, but most of the "usable" water (used instead of returning to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built catchment systems for collecting, purifying and delivering water, and removing wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water problems, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of high water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-hungry meat consumption increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water industries grow, new water challenges may arise. The Agricultural Water Management Assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed a growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and described areas of water scarcity. It showed that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas with physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. An additional 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where authorities are unable to meet water demand due to lack of investment in water or lack of human capacity. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of current food production and environmental trends will lead to a crisis in many parts of the world. To avoid the global water crisis, farmers must try to increase their yields to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also a result of water intensive production. For example, cotton: 1 kilogram of cotton — the same as a pair of jeans — requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is being depleted in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. It has caused significant environmental damage: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. Like scientific standards
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth cubic meter, and to the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a standard of reference for metal, a thousand times greater than the pound, was needed. A task was therefore carried out to accurately determine the weight of one liter of water. Despite the mandated definition of water set at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the maximum water temperature, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is absolute temperature with the same increments as the Celsius temperature, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the liquid level (set at 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains significant amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes often contains heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Water definition. For drinking
The human body consists of 50-60% water on average, depending on age, gender and body size, although each person can be between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends drinking 3.7 L (0.98 US gallons) of water per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) per day for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of it is thrown in through food or drink other than drinking water directly. The medical literature favors a lower consumption, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than they need while exercising, causing dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. It seems that the popular saying "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" has no scientific basis. Studies have shown that drinking extra water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent constipation. The original recommendations for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The usual standard for different people is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The latest report on dietary intake from the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal, without 1% water) of the total amount of food given to women). the total amount of water in the analysis. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a lot of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that in general, around 20% of water is obtained from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (containing caffeine). Water leaves the body in many forms; through urine and faeces, through sweat, and through exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and the daily water requirement may also increase. Humans need water with less pollution. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even necessary to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest freshwater source (by volume) that can be drunk is Lake Baikal in Siberia. An invitation
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is used extensively in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, neutralizing many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and substances closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction in water has also been observed. Supercritical water is a recent research topic. Oxygenated supercritical water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and drying. Cold water can come from lakes or even oceans. Heat transport is most efficient through the convection and oscillation of the water due to the heat of the vapor it holds. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as iron and copper are oxidized faster than untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in the closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat with the water body or steam in the cooling tower). In the United States, water-cooled power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the regulator. This provides a safe safety measure, because the removal of water from the reactor reduces nuclear activity. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is better to keep the nuclear core in water to ensure that it is properly cooled. Ideas about fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The water vapor carries heat from the fire. The use of water on fires containing oil and organic solvents is dangerous because many organic substances float on the surface of the water and the water tends to disperse the fire water. The use of water in fire fighting should also consider the risk of vapor explosion, which can occur when water is used in a very hot fire in a confined space, and hydrogen explosion, when things that react with water, such as metal or hot carbon like coal, coal, or graphite coke, destroy the water, producing water gas. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from extinguishing the fire but from the reactor's water cooling system. A gas explosion occurs when the core heats up so much that the water evaporates. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction of steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce high heat when reacting with water and can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these dissolve, they may ignite when the contents react with water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for sports and exercise. Some of them are swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy entertainment. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing structures are popular home decor. Some keep fish, plants and other animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and companionship. People also use water in snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature or as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including water treatment) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include wells, water storage tanks, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old canals. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is usually collected from springs, taken from cisterns made in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right places is one way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can flow adequately. Another source of water is rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for consumption. This may involve the removal of undigested substances, soluble substances and harmful microbes. A popular method is sand filtration which only removes insoluble matter, but chlorine and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation does all three jobs. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of large amounts of seawater is a more expensive solution for use in dry coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, tank delivery or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy free of charge. Another option is to reduce consumption by using potable (potable) water for human use only. In some large cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the worst use of water; if the polluter restricts other uses of the water, the resource becomes a waste, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it is not included in the standard accounting of the market price, which is considered as an externality that is not understood by the market. Therefore, other people pay the cost of water pollution, but the profits of private companies are not returned to the local population, who are affected by this pollution. Human pharmaceuticals often end up in waterways and can have negative effects on aquatic life if they accumulate and cannot be broken down. Urban and industrial wastewater is often treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated soil runoff is accomplished through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using water-soluble chemicals, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and remove materials, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical processing, washing, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require dedicated water resources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity generated from the power of water. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting and renewable source of energy. The energy is provided by the motion of the water. Basically a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water that comes out of the lake is forced through a turbine that turns the generator. Pressurized water is used for water blasting and water breakers. A high pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It is highly functional, safe and environmentally friendly. It is also used for cooling the machine to prevent overheating, or to prevent the saw from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Pollution of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes the dissolved solutes (chemical pollution) and the cold water discharged (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various cleaning techniques for water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and grilling are popular cooking methods that often involve immersing food in water or its own gas, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays an important role in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the quality of water. The boiling point and boiling point of water are affected by the solutes, as well as the air pressure, which affects the height. Water boils at a lower temperature with lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One kilogram of sucrose (sugar) molecule raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one kilogram of salt raises the boiling point of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the temperature of the water. Solutes in water affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Water solutes reduce water activity - this is important to know because bacteria stop growing at low water levels. Not only microbial growth affects food safety, but also food preservation and storage. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using chemical ion exchange systems. This can have a significant impact on product quality, and play a role in cleaning. Water hardness is classified based on the amount of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters of water (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal); However, the author also explains that the global average and the factors that occur determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Sharing in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is the result of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by strong winds of gas and dust. When this flow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. Noticeable water forms rapidly in this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant steam cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all the oceans on Earth combined" surrounding a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "research has shown that water has dominated the universe for almost its entire existence." Water is found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Other galaxies may also have abundant water, as hydrogen and oxygen are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems may have similar components. Water vapor
Water exists as a vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in appreciable quantities
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a lot of water in Mercury's exosphere
Venus Status: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, usually 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in small numbers
Mars Status: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only ice; and the moon in Europe
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
The atmosphere in Uranus - in numbers is less than 50 bar
The atmosphere of Neptune - found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cooler stars and found in very hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disk: including half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water with water
There is flowing water on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. There is also a small amount of water on Mars. Scientists believe that there is liquid water on Saturn's moon Enceladus, such as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the southern surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, may be mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest a subsurface ocean. Jupiter's moon Ganymede may also contain boiling water as a layer sandwiched between ice and rock. snow
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. The Earth-Moon system: especially in ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa as well as Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and the surface and mantles of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects related to the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud
And there may also be:

The ball of Mercury
Tethys

appearance
Water and other volatiles can make up most of the internal systems of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers can be a form of ionic water where the molecules can be broken into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen, and deeper in superionic water where the oxygen crystals form, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Nature of water and planets
The presence of flowing water, and to a lesser extent gases and their forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were a little closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions for these three forms to coexist would be less. The size of the earth also plays a role: its strength allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air humidity. Small planets like Mars have thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps keep Earth's temperature constant when present in constant amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the pressure around it, which determines the force of the planet. If a planet is massive, the water on its surface can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure of gravity, as seen in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, Politics and Crisis
Water policy is a policy that affects water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important factor in many political conflicts. This causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the last decade almost all over the world, but about one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion people do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some analysts have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water scarcity. A report, published in November 2009, states that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in the developing world with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A report in 2006 said that "The United Nations is good enough for all," said the 2006 report. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on aid effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, which may leave many donors working on conflicting projects and participating governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cited poor management as a contributing factor to some water shortages. Water management is a combination of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing what processes work best in a particular physical and social context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply the 'blueprint' that works in developed countries to the place and context of development. An example is the Mekong river; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that there has been little thorough and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment. They also found Cambodia's water bill to be more complicated than it should be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child died every 15 seconds from a preventable water-related disease, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26 percent of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46 percent) do not have access to safe sanitation. Urban population (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages are said to be rare, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with severe or severe water stress. However, in the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to increase by the same amount until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have increased fourfold, while floods in the north-central region have increased by 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations responsible for water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management conducts projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Land Pollution (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day was held on March 22 and International Ocean Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered an era of "Water Loss" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since 1990, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without water, 4 billion a year, at least, the water shortage for 3 million dollars per year. It called for policies that fit the situation, not old rules. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Beliefs that incorporate ritual washing (medicine) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a sacrament of central Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also practiced by other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, bathing in pure water is practiced for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (woud), if there is no water (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to purify a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by the priest for baptism, anointing people, places and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four common elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or basic element of the universe. Thales, who was portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, thought that the earth, which was denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a Monist, also believed that everything came from water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body relates water to phlegm, being cold and moist. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing said: "The highest virtue is like that of water. Therefore (its path) is close to (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world weaker and weaker than water, and the attack on something hard and strong nothing can take precedence over it - because nothing can be changed." the population in different areas of the nature of local water sources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth is a magical water concept that is said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the modern novel Ulysses (1922) written by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" is in the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "song of water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymns are not just "absent facts" but their phrases, like their themes, "flow and flow, swell and swell, accumulate and break, until they return in the calm silence of the finale 'plague fence, faded flower water, stagnant pool in the season of the moon. Ithaca, and according to According to literary critic Hugh Kenner, it achieves "the incredible feat of raising the clutter of textbook information." water, irrigator, carrier of water back to the region? Its universality: the equality of democracy and its integrity in finding its own height: its size in the ocean in Mercator's projection: the depth without a fan in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific more than 8000 of its waves. coast: the independence of its group: the variability of the state of the sea: its hydrostatic stability in the stability: the hydrokinetic disturbance of the tides and spring: its decrease after the destruction: the deficiency in the circumpolar ice, the Arctic and the Antarctic: the importance of climate and commerce: the importance of the land: the importance of the land. extending in square leagues throughout all the regions below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its first basin: its luteofulvous beds: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of precious metals: the slow erosion of the peninsula and all its descending heights: all its heights and heights: lagoons and tarns in the highlands: the distribution of its color in warm, hot and cold areas: the end of the car in the continental lake with rivers and streams flowing with its tributaries and waves crossing the sea: the bay, the north and the south equatorial: the violence of earthquakes, waterfalls, flowing water. freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: the wide circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secrets of springs, and hidden moisture, shown by the rhabdomantic and hyemplmetric gates in the ashdomantic or hyemplmetric walls of the walls. the fullness of the air, the softening of the dew: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing properties: its immersion in the waters of the Dead Sea: its permanent penetration into canals, bays, inadequate dams, the leakage of ships: its properties for cleaning and killing plants. paradigm and paragon: its metamorphosis into vapour, fog, cloud, rain, rain, snow, hail: its strength in a rigid hydrant: its various forms of loughs and gulfs and gulfs and bowels and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and ice and ice, ice, ice, ice. icefloes: their tolerance in the operation of hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: their use in canals, rivers, if fordable, floating docks and graves: their potential from controlled floods or falls from height to height, if without a root (root) literally, the inhabitants of the world: 90% of the human body consists of it: the evil of the effluvia of the lacustrine swamp, the dead leaves, the water of the faded flowers, the hanging pool of the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster created The Value of Water, at St. The largest exhibition ever held at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an environmental art group that uses water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the United Nations declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to illustrate the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a correct but rarely used technical name for water. This name was used in a series of pranks and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an article about April Fools' Day appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story included safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done so include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made an entire song dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External link

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Chronology of Conflict Water: Database Conflict Water Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to World Bank strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Systems and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the world", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary