Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical. It is a major constituent of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy or be an organic micronutrient. Due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, worldwide abundance, and strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to water's triple point, water exists on Earth as solid, liquid and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of water droplets and suspended ice, their solid state. When finely divided, ice crystals can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas making up the majority of water volume (about 96.5%). A small fraction of water occurs as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater waters has been, and continues to be, a major food source for many parts of the world, supplying 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance commodity trade (such as oil, natural gas and manufactured products) is transported by boat over seas, rivers, lakes and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of materials, minerals and organics; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many other sports and forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *woded-woded-or (root suffix 'or 'wet'), Proto-Indo-European *woded-or). Also cognate, via an Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a slight blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is weak in dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as it occurs in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special measures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal terrestrial conditions. state
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within a certain temperature range; it is the only naturally occurring substance that does so while liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert great pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it displays the usual behavior of shrinking and becoming more compact as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at a temperature of 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lake would die during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that circulates heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a significant interaction. Phase transition
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or freezes (solid) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into vapor at its surface through evaporation (evaporation throughout a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze drying process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on the surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      Q
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L__{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most materials, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressurized melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in deep or underground oceans. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In a hydrothermal vent, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C per 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. On the other hand, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce the cooking time by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Point three and critical
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascal (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between densities such as gas and liquid; its properties (which are quite different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, Ic ice, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several more predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered superionic ice phase, is found when water droplets are subjected to shock waves that raise the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, producing a rigid structure of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical properties of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specialized sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs have been known to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or foul. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue because of the absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, during the day. The main absorption band responsible for the color is the O–H stretching vibrational tone. The apparent intensity of color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with swimming pools when the light source is sunlight reflected from the pool's white tiles. In nature, the color can also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower water tone means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the basic stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solutions in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches the part of the ocean below a depth of 1,000 meters (3,300 feet). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atom is close to two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms have a partial negative charge while hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. These interactions between water and biomacromolecular subunits form protein folds, DNA base pairs, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, water molecules in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting point and boiling point of water are much higher than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. It also explains the very high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to covalent O–H bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partly covalent. This bond is the cause of high water surface tension and capillary force. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is believed by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of hydronium ions and the resulting hydroxide. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only experiences a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and liberating the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a type of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, inland waters is limnology and ocean distribution is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are in the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below, and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The estimated volume of earth's water (total world water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, streams, rivers, canals, ponds, or puddles. The majority of water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, ground water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these areas in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from plants and land animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the earth or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with minor contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often collects on watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shaped the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provided rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually a low-lying area, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average precipitation either due to its topography or due to its location in terms of latitude. Water source
A water source is a natural water source that is potentially useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of a lake may fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large part of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when production exceeds recharge, stocks are depleted. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the main seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are cycles of rising and falling local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changes in tides produced in certain locations are the result of changes in the position of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The coastal strip that is submerged by high tides and exposed to low tides, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are important for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important as a solvent in which many solutes in the body dissolve and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via the energy required for enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use that fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and renew water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also important to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. Acids, hydrogen ion donors (H+, i.e., protons), can be neutralized by bases, proton acceptors such as hydroxide ions (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in ideal conditions. Acids have a pH value of less than 7 while bases have a value of more than 7. Aquatic life form
Earth's surface water is teeming with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills rather than lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit various modifications to survive in oxygen-poor waters including breathing tubes (see insect siphons and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, when invertebrate life evolved in aquatic habitats, most had little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Impact on human civilization
Civilizations have historically developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lies between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolitan cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have developed for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water has been and is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in countries experiencing water scarcity, which means that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, redistributed by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it stem from its natural distribution in space and time, growing economic demands by agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established a Millennium Development Goal for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also experience moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these extract more water each year than is recharged through their natural water cycle. The stress not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
agriculture
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify, and deliver water, as well as dispose of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-hungry meat consumption expands, and new demands rise for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assesses current water availability for agriculture on a global scale and maps locations experiencing water shortages. It found that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity leaves authorities unable to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers need to work to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, that water is used in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth of a meter cubed, and at the temperature of melted ice". For practical purposes though, a metal reference standard is needed, a thousand times larger, the kilogram. Therefore the work was assigned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the established definition of a gram of water is determined at 0 °C (32 °F)—a reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain isotopes that are less heavy than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Average Seawater specification. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine. recommends a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of them are consumed through food or drinks other than drinking straight water. Medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, not including additional needs due to fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "one should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at meals, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps in preventing constipation. The original recommendation for water intake was in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council. reads: "A common standard for diverse people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this quantity is contained in prepared foods." The latest nutritional reference intake report by the U.S. National Research Council. generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water containing 1% food containing 1% water. total water intake in the survey. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), because large amounts of fluid are lost during breastfeeding. Also of note is that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is removed from the body in various forms; through urine and feces, through sweat, and by exhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Humans need water with little impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some soluble substances are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest source of fresh water (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these qualities are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently become a research topic. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may be available naturally from lakes or seas. It is very effective at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. The downside is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and coolant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or take it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest users of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and preferably to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water carries heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic solvents because many organic materials float on top of water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the danger of steam explosions, which may occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or graphite coke, decompose water, producing water gas. Such explosive power was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from extinguishing the fire but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when the superheat of the core causes water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may occur as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced material that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can ignite when the contents react with water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and for sports. Some of these include swimming, surfing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeside, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go for relaxation and recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, tanks for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial holes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in sufficient places is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifer can supply enough flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve the removal of insoluble matter, dissolved matter and harmful microbes. A popular method is filtering with sand which only removes the insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Bulk desalination of seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, tank delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need free of charge. Reducing consumption by using drinking (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Contaminating water is perhaps the single greatest abuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it is a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, this does not enter the standard accounting of market costs, which are considered externalities that cannot be accounted for by the market. Therefore others pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals used by humans often end up in waterways and can adversely affect aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they do not biodegrade. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reduction of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurry or using water to dissolve and extract materials, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical bleaching, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require specialized water resources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity derived from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting source of renewable energy. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water that flows out of the lake is forced through a turbine that turns a generator. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. A high pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It works well, is relatively safe and harmless to the environment. It is also used in machinery cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Untreated discharge of water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses various purification techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Dissolved substances such as salt and sugar found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using chemical ion exchange systems. It can dramatically affect product quality, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate contained in the water. Water is classed as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also explain that this is a global average and that situational factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When the outflow of this material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water may exist in abundance in other galaxies as well, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems may have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and the moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Uranus atmosphere – in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – found in deeper layers
Atmospheres of exoplanets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars but detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disc: includes more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is found on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes found in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water exists on Saturn's moon Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus' south pole, and on Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: primarily as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa as well as Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort objects
And may also be present on:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shape
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the inner structure of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers is probably in the form of ionic water where the molecules dissociate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Habitability of water and planets
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), conditions that allow all three forms to be present simultaneously are much less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in fixed quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If the planet is large enough, the water on it may be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics that is influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past few decades in almost every part of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report stated that it is sufficient for everyone, but it is for everyone. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, potentially resulting in multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the empowerment to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cite poor governance as a reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes are most effective in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to the locations and contexts of the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that careful and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessments are rarely done. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from a preventable water-related disease, which is often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-making tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. The population in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been described as endemic, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. But over the past 40 years, water use has increased by around 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the mid-northern latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute runs a project with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "Water Bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, 4 billion people experience water shortages every month for $3 billion every year for $3 billion. It requires policies that match reality rather than the norms of the past. In culture
religion
Water is considered a cleanser in most religions. Beliefs that incorporate ritual washing (wudu) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is the main Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of other religious practices, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless there is no water (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or area (eg, in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places, and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associates water with phlegm, as cold and damp. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Several traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is seen in benefiting all things, and in occupying it, without striving (on the contrary), a lowly place that is disliked by all men. Therefore (its path) is close to (the path of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, yet for attacking things that are firm and strong nothing can surpass it—for there is no something (so effective) that can be changed." Guanzi in "Shui di" 水地 chapter describing the natural properties "water is the natural properties", describing the natural properties. from the population of different Chinese areas to the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept related to magical water that is claimed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "dull string of facts", rather, its phrases, like its subject, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they subside into a stillness that concludes 'the fence of disease, the water of the fading flower, the stagnant pool in the fading moon'" The most of passing moon. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieved "the impossible feat of awakening to poetry all the confusion of foot information that has accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. Here is the hymn quoted in full. What is in the water that Bloom admires, the water lover, the water drawer, the water carrier who returns to the range? Its universality: its democratic equality and firmness of nature in finding its own level: its vastness in Mercator's projection ocean: its unbounded depth in the Sundam trench in the Pacific exceeding 8,000 fathoms its restless wave surface: the edge of the sea: its independence of units: the changeability of the state of the sea: its hydrostatic calm in calms: its hydrokinetic turbidity in tides and spring: its sinking after destruction: its barrenness on the edge of the ice circumpolar, polar and antarctic: its climate and commercial importance: its preference for dry land: its excitement about dry land. extending in square leagues throughout the region below the subequatorial Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its ancient basin: its luteofulvous base: its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: the slow erosion of the peninsula and all the heavy and extreme promontories: all the heavy and extreme promontories: the lagoons and tar highlands: the gradation of its color in the torrid and temperate and cold zones: the effect of its vehicle on the continental lakes of the rivers that contain and the rivers that flow mixed oceans with tributaries and cross-ocean currents: gulf rivers, north and south equatorial currents: violence in sea earthquakes, well water, freshets, spates, groundswells, watershed, waterparts, geyser, cataract, whirlpool, maelstrom, deluge, deluge, cloudburst: vast circumterrestrial horizontal curve: its secret in springs, and latent moisture, revealed by the rhabdomantic and hyemplmetrical gate at Ashtown with good homometer instruments. saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its constant penetration in tunnels, ditches, inadequate dams, leaks on board ships: its properties for cleansing and extinguishing fires: its properties for cleansing and extinguishing fires. paradigms and exemplars: its metamorphosis as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, hail, snow, hail: its strength in hard water taps: its various forms in loughs and gulfs and gulfs and gulfs and guts and lagoons and atolls and islands and sounds and fjords and minches and its tides, glaciers and its tides. icefloes: its speed in operating the wheels of hydraulic mills, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachers, tanneries, scutch factories: its use in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and graving: its potential can be obtained from harnessed tides or water courses falling from level to level, flora and fauna (submarinely) literally, the inhabitants of the world: its existence as 90% of the human body: the disadvantages of its effluvia in lacustrine swamps, ferns disease, flower water fades, pools stagnate in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster composed The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which supports a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it features more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact clean water has on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that make fun of scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story consisted of safety concerns about the material. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Note
Reference
Works cited
Further reading
External link

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of water science (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources-related strategies, work and publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Idea, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary