Water is an organic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless substance. It is the main part of Earth's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known organisms and acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, has strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, even if it does not provide energy or just micro-living. Because it is present in all organisms, chemical stability, global abundance, and strong polarity related to its small molecular size, water is called the "universal solvent". Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as solid, liquid, and gas. It creates precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds contain water droplets and ice, its solid form. When properly separated, frozen ice hardens into a form of snow. The gaseous form of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas accounting for the majority of water (96.5%). Smaller amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), in the atmosphere as fog, clouds (ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water continues to move through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff until it reaches the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, a source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by boat across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for heating and cooling in industries and homes. Water is a good solvent for many types of chemicals, minerals and organics; as such, it is widely used in industrial and cooking and cleaning applications. Water, ice, and snow are essential to many sports and other recreational activities, such as swimming, boating, boat racing, surfing, fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-wet-or'o (aka) It is also connected, through an Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vavj. History
On the ground
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a sweet, colorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes called the "solvent of the world" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is weak against nonpolar substances. This makes it the "melt of life": in fact, the water found in the immediate environment always contains various dissolved substances, with special processes to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only substance that exists as a solid, liquid, or gas in normal Earth conditions. Country
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the water part of H2O. The other two forms of liquid matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, which is water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat causes a phase change: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vapor (water to vapor), heating (vapor to water), condensation (ice to vapor) and condensation (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the common substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled over a certain temperature range; it is the only substance that naturally occurs when it is wet. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes much less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, and its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and turns into ice, water expands by 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressure, broken pipes and broken rocks. As a solid, it shows the previous behavior of contracting and becoming stronger when cold. These types of geothermal energy have great benefits for the life of the earth. In a lake or ocean, when water sinks below 4 °C (39 °F), ice forms at the top and floats on top of the water. This ice freezes the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes will die during the winter. In addition, this negative behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the world's oceans. The magnet
Water is a finite resource. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can participate in a famous interaction. Partial transfers
At one atmospheric pressure (atm), ice melts or freezes (condenses) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water will turn to vapor on the surface of the evaporator (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Condensation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, ice is deposited on a cold surface when snow trucks are built by deposition on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze-drying process, the food is frozen and then stored at low pressure to reduce the amount of ice on it. The melting and vapor points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melt temperature and pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              Q
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 a 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 the molar volumes of the liquid and the solid phase, a 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L__{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases as they melt, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, pressure can melt under the maximum thickness of the ice, creating subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but because of the liquid/gas interface the vapor phase is less dense than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water remains in liquid form at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures can exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. High altitude cooking takes longer than sea level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time should be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple points and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there is a curve that separates solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. When these meet at a single point called the triple point, the three parts come together. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); the lowest pressure at which water can flow. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/vapor curve stops at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can be compressed or expanded between air-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from those of natural water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the appropriate pressures and temperatures it can only enter nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes them useful in many applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and efficient organic catalysis, or as catalysts in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In Earth's atmosphere, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, melting and precipitation. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, which is partially formed by crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, occurs in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystalline structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed by the test, and many more are predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, is an ice-phase, superionic ice, discovered when a drop of water hits a shock wave that raises the pressure of water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a shell of solid oxygen atoms through which hydrogen atoms can freely flow. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. Details of the chemical nature of the liquid water are not fully understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is said to be tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that sense the water in their mouths, frogs are known to smell. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) contains many dissolved substances that may have a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the potential of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and shape
Pure water is blue because of light absorption in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color is easily seen in a glass of tap water placed against a white background, during the day. The main input groups for color are the resonance of the O-H stretching vibrations. Color intensity increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunny and reflects off the white tiles of the pool. In the environment, it can also change color from blue to green due to suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the stronger underwater sounds allow the use of short path length glass cuvettes. To observe the stretching spectrum of water or aqueous solutions in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette should be transparent to about 3500 cm−1 and not dissolve in water; Calcium phosphate is a material used for cuvette windows and aqueous solutions. Raman-active vibrations may be detected with, for example, a 1 cm sample. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because the sun can reach them. This means that the sun does not reach parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common crystals (1.6). Ice has a lower refractive index (1.31) than liquid water. Atomic polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms near the two corners of the tetrahedron are occupied by oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms have a negative charge while hydrogen atoms are positively charged. Along the bent shell, an electric dipole moment is imparted to the atom, and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, neutralizing many salts and hydrophilic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – which is what makes carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers taste bitter. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules form protein folds, DNA base pairs, and other factors essential to life (the hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkalis) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid form can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why water has a higher melting and boiling point than other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain the specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties allow water to improve the shape of the earth, by retaining heat and transporting it between the sea and the air. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the OH–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% will be electrostatic, while the remaining 10% will be covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's surface tension and capping force. Capillary action refers to the ability of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property depends on all plants, such as trees. It is self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, and the combination of hydrocarbon and saturated ions results. Electrical and electronic transport
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by the removal of small amounts of ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The absorption of energy must be greater than the heat given off by the conversion process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Machine tools
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels a long time in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental awareness (sonar). Reaction
Metallic elements that are more electrically stable than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming salts and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the ground
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Organic and organic processes are included in the concept of ecology. The mass of water found above, below, and above the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. The total amount of water on Earth (the world's total water) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, ditches, ponds, or reservoirs. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Air also contains water in solid, liquid, and vapor forms. Groundwater also exists in aquifers. Water is important in many agricultural activities. Ground water is contained in most rocks, and the pressure of this ground water affects patterns of faulting. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that causes volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water plays an important role in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser extent, ice, is responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments is a variety of sedimentary rocks, which are part of the geologic record of Earth's history. Water circulation
The water cycle (also known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in hydrology, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water continues to move through each region in the water cycle which includes the following exchange processes:

evaporation from oceans and other water into the air and emissions from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that rises in the sky and falls to the ground or the sea. fly from land to sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean returns to it, but the winds bring the water vapor to the land as it flows to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, the evaporation and subsidence affecting the land masses also contribute to 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, about 119 Tt per year on land, comes in many forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is a small drop of water that condenses when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface of the earth begins to rise. Water vapor in the sky also blocks the sun from producing rainbows. A lot of runoff is collected on the watercourses that flow into the rivers. Through erosion, flowing water creates the environment that creates river valleys and valleys that provide rich soil and ground to establish population centers. A flood occurs when a small area of ​​land is covered with water when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water. This occurs when the region receives below average rainfall, either due to the topography or location on the latitude. Water resources
A water resource is a natural source of water that is useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking or irrigation water. The water appears as "flowing" and "flowing". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or springs, as well as ice and snow. Of the world's total fresh water, 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biomass. The length of time water stays in storage varies: some aquifers store water for thousands of years, but the lake's volume varies seasonally, decreasing in the dry season and increasing in the wet season. A large fraction of the water supply for some regions is water withdrawn from water stored in trees, and the greater the withdrawals, the lower the trees. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater abstraction, depleting groundwater. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of 3.5% sodium chloride, with smaller amounts of other substances. Seawater differs from fresh water in several important ways. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature drops to the freezing point, rather than reaching a high density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the great seas varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local sea levels due to the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides change the depth of ocean and estuary water, creating oscillating currents called tidal currents. The changing tides that occur in an area are a result of the different positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, as well as the effects of the Earth's rotation and local tides. The coastal plain is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, a major ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many unique properties that are essential for the growth of life. It accomplishes this task by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that can be recycled. All known life depends on water. Water is important as a solvent that dissolves many of the body's solutes and is an important part of many of the body's functions in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to generate larger molecules (for example, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storage of carbohydrates and information). In catabolism, water is used to break down bonds to produce smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuels for electricity use or for other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes cannot continue. Water is essential to photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form sugar and release oxygen. All living cells use those fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and regenerate water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is the key to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, which has a hydrogen ion (H+, ie, a proton) can be neutralized by a base, which has a proton ion such as a sodium ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative concentration of hydrogen ions) of 7 in the ideal state. An acid has a pH value less than 7 while a base has a pH value greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the earth are full of life. The first living things appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as algae and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is the base of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and there are many ways. A fish has a lung instead of a lung, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a variety of adaptations to survive in oxygen-poor waters including respiratory tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gases (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in the aquatic environment, most of the specializations for aquatic respiration were few and far between. Implications for the human world
Historically the world has evolved around rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called meridians of the world, lies between the great rivers of Hirgel and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The first Indus Valley people (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) flourished along the Indus River and the tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to ease of access by water and the resulting trade. Islands and safe harbors, like Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water is critical to human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration, filtration, or other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing has different names other than potable water or potable water, sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane barrier that is used to make water safe for bathing and drinking. Its use is highly technical and is monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in good microbiological conditions by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by using ultraviolet light. Water remediation is the transformation of wastewater (mostly sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be used for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in countries where water is scarce, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic ft) every year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Natural water is a renewable resource, which is also transformed by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressures to access it arise from the uneven distribution of space and time, the increasing economic needs of agriculture and industry, and the increasing population. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the number of people in the world without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. According to the World Health Organization, safe water can prevent 1.4 million deaths in children from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of municipal wastewater continues to flow into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is replenished from their hydrological cycle. The strain does not affect natural surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but reduces groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Human use of water for agriculture, including wet agriculture, accounts for 80 to 90 percent of human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater is withdrawn for irrigation, but most of the water "wasted" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often overlooked, especially in developing countries where clean water systems have been built to collect, clean, and distribute water, as well as remove wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic, and climate pressures are raising concerns about water issues, increasing competition for sustainable water resources, and the issue of peak water. As the population and economy continue to grow, the consumption of water-thirsty food will increase, new demands for biofuels and new water-intensive industries will rise, and potentially new water challenges. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to provide food for the growing population. It assessed the availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and monitored areas suffering from water insecurity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. There are 1.6 billion people living in areas with economic water insecurity, where lack of investment in water or lack of human resources means that the authorities are unable to meet the demand for water. The report found that it is possible to produce enough food in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental conditions will create problems in many parts of the world. In order to avoid the global water crisis, farmers need to increase production to meet the demand for food, while companies and cities are looking for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is caused by the production of water intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, it consumes water in regions that are already suffering from water scarcity. The damage to the environment was huge: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to the cube of a hundredth of a meter, and the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes though, we need a metal reference standard, one thousand times larger, the kilogram. A task was therefore given to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the definition of the gram established water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the maximum density of water, which was measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale is based on the triple point of water, defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is a temperature scale similar to the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined as the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mostly hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains small amounts of oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy solvents is very small, but they still affect the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes is less dense than sea water. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body is, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although it can range from 45% to 75% in humans. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The right amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of these are consumed through foods and beverages other than drinking plain water. The medical literature recommends a lower intake of 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to water loss from exercise and hot weather. Healthy kidneys can produce 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as physical activity reduces this amount. People can drink more water than they should while exercising, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can lead to death. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, has been associated with weight loss. Drinking plenty of water can help prevent constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The usual standard for the general population is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is in processed foods." The latest report on food intake by the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on the average water intake from US research data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal, in total water) provided) total water in the study. In particular, pregnant women and women who are breastfeeding need more water to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women to 3 liters (12 cups), as they lose a lot of water during breastfeeding. Generally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, and the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated beverages). Water comes out of the body in many forms; through urine and faeces, through sweat, and through the production of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and hot weather, dehydration increases and daily water needs increase. People want water with less impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutions are good and useful for improving taste and providing needed electrolytes. The only natural source of water (by size) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Cleaning
Transportation
Substance abuse
Water is used extensively in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and to a lesser extent as a solvent or catalyst. In pure reactions, water is the only solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds and other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds close to water. In organic reactions, it is not often used as a reaction solvent, because it does not slow reactions, it is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, sometimes these items are needed. Also, Diels-Alder reactions have been shown to be accelerated by water. Supercritical fluid is a research topic. Oxygenated water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat transfer
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat transfer, because of their availability and heat capacity, for cooling and heating. Cold water usually comes from a lake or sea. It is very effective in conducting heat through steam and cooling water due to the high latent heat of steam. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as iron and copper are more easily corroded by water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as working fluid (used in the closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and coolant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or removed by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest users of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is used as a coolant and moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, removing water from the reactor to slow down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of preventing reactivity would be useful and preferably the core should be covered with water for cooling. Fire thoughts
Water has a high thermal conductivity and is relatively neutral, making it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water carries away heat from the fire. Water is dangerous to use on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic substances dissolve on the water and the water spreads the hot water. The use of water in fire fighting must also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which may occur when water is used on very hot fires in closed spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances react with water, such as some metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal or graphite coke, the water decomposes and water gas is released. Such explosions were evident in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water involved did not come from the fire extinguisher but from the reactor's water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when the core heats up and the water escapes into the steam. A hydrogen explosion may have resulted from the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some oxides, such as those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce high temperatures when they react with water and can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced product that is shipped in paper bags. If these are submerged, they may ignite from internal reaction with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Seasides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go for relaxation and recreation. Many people find the sound and feel of running water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorative items. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in ponds or lakes for show, fun, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, snowboarding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, and the water needs to be at a low temperature even if it is frozen or frozen as snow. The water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to homes and businesses. Water supply facilities include wells, cisterns for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes and even old canals. Air conditioners are being developed. Drinking water is often collected in wells, taken from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building wells in the right places can produce more water, assuming the wells can flow properly. Other sources of water are rainwater harvesting. Water needs to be purified for human consumption. This may include removal of undissolved substances, soluble substances and harmful microorganisms. Popular methods include sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, chlorine and boiling which kill harmful microbes. All three tasks are performed by Maturu. There are more advanced methods, such as reverse osmosis. Seawater desalination is a more cost-effective solution used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water distribution is done through municipal water systems, tanker deliveries, or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the poor at no cost. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another way. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve natural water resources. Waste water is perhaps the most common misuse of water; if pollution limits other uses of water, the resource is wasted, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, this is not included in the standard accounting for market prices and is considered an externality that the market cannot account for. So other people pay the price of water pollution, as the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local population, which has suffered from this pollution. Pharmaceuticals that humans ingest end up in waterways and can have a negative impact on aquatic life if they are bioaccumulated and not decomposed. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reduction of contaminated surface runoff is determined by a number of prevention and treatment measures. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water slurries, or using water to dissolve and remove chemicals, to clean products and processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical weapons, pulp pulverization, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, require dedicated water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity that comes from hydroelectricity. Electric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to the engine. It is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is released by the movement of water. Basically a dam is built across the river and an artificial lake is created behind it. The water that flows from the lake is pushed through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water jets and water jets. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, looks safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used to heat machines to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from burning. Water is also used in many industrial and mechanical processes, such as steam engines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial processes is a pollutant. Pollution includes discharged solvents (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires purified water for many applications and uses various purification methods for water supply and distribution. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence is a major use of water, and the expansion of AI will "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and steaming are popular cooking methods that require submerging food in water or its gaseous form, steam. The water is also used for washing dishes. Water plays many important roles in nutrition. Solutes such as salt and sugar found in water affect the properties of the water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, including atmospheric pressure, which affects altitude. Water boils at low temperatures and low atmospheric pressure occurs at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Also, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. The solutes in the water affect the water process which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microorganisms in the food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Any solution in water will have a lower water activity—this is important to understand because bacteria will stop growing at a lower water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is an important factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It will greatly affect the quality of a product and the opportunity to clean it. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of meat requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also explain that this is a global average and that factors determine the amount of water used in meat production. Drug use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of medicines. Distribution in the environment
In the world
Most of the water in the universe is formed as a result of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outer atmosphere of gas and dust. When this flow of material hits the surrounding air, shock waves are created and heat the air. Water is found to be rapidly produced in this hot air. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the oceans on Earth combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "reveal shows that water has been present in the universe for almost all of its existence". Water has been found in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Other galaxies may have a lot of water, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the patterns of formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most planetary systems have similar compositions. Water mist
Water vapor in:

Solar Energy: in visible quantities
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and the amount of water in Mercury's atmosphere
Temperature of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the total atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
The Valley of the Moon: in parts
Temperature of Mars: 0.03%
Crown of Ceres
Jupiter Variation: 0.0004% – only in ice; and that of his European moon
Saturn's state – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (submarine)
Transit of Uranus – below 50 degrees
Neptune's Clouds – found in deep layers
Outer planetary winds: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Interstellar winds: not limited to cold stars and found in hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Spherical disk: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri including TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water water
There is water on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. There is also a small amount of liquid water at times on Mars. Scientists believe that the Saturnian moons of Enceladus contain liquid water, a 10 km thick ocean about 30–40 km below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface liquid ocean. Liquid water also exists on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between ice and rock. Ice water
The water is frozen above:

 Mars: under regolith and poles. Earth–Moon system: mostly ice sheets on Earth, in Moon craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Lunar Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system with the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects associated with the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud
And it may be on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

External features
Water and other weird stuff probably make up most of the interior of Uranus and Neptune and water in the deeper layers like ionized water where the molecules break up into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deep like superionic water where oxygen freezes, but the hydrogen ions just flow through the oxygen network. Water and planetary life
The presence of liquid water, and its smaller gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it gets closer to the Sun (about 5% or 8 million km), the conditions that allow all three forms at the same time are less likely. The size of the land also plays a role: because of the gravity it holds the air, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse gas) that helps maintain surface temperatures while remaining within regular ranges. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If the planet is very large, the surface water may be solid despite the high temperatures, due to the high pressure generated by the force, as seen on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is the politics of water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and is important in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades almost everywhere in the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to proper sanitation. However, some observers predict that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be affected by water vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will increase by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. It was reported in 2006 that water for all. it will undermine bad governance and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been managed by donors in the water sector in the same way as they have in education and health, which may leave many donors working on overlapping projects with recipient governments that do not have the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture identified poor management as a cause of some forms of water scarcity. Water management is the combination of formal and informal processes through which decisions are made about water management. Good water management practices are about knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Sometimes mistakes are made in trying to apply 'knowledge' that works in the developing world to developing world settings and contexts. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that cost-benefit analyzes and transparency and environmental impact assessments were conducted poorly. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law is more complex than it should be. In 2004, UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with a tool for developing sustainable water policies. According to the 2023 report, two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to proper sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will suffer from water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity is considered a common disease, due to over-consumption and pollution. According to the report 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high water stress. But in the last 40 years, water consumption has increased by 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while floods in the north-central part of the north have increased by 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute conducts programs and aims to use effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22nd and World Oceans Day is on June 8th. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-deprived countries, 4 billion people will suffer from water scarcity every year, 3 billion for the $30 billion annually. It called for policies that corresponded to reality rather than tradition. In culture
Believe
Water is considered pure in most religions. Religions that incorporate ablution include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a Sacrament of Christianity (called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual baths with purified water are performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed usually after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in all rituals to cleanse a person or a place (for example, in the ritual of misogi). In the Christian faith, holy water is water consecrated by a priest to baptize, to bless people, places, objects, or things to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Thoughtful thinking
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and called it ylem, or the basic substance of the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, created the earth from water, which is greater than water. Thales, a monist, believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that water was shaped like an icosahedron – easily flowing into the cube-shaped earth. The concept of the four bodily humors is associated with water and fog, cold and wet. The classical element of water is one of the five elements in Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some popular Asian philosophies take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The essence is like water. The goodness of water is found in its benefit to all, and in its existence, without insistence (to difference), the small part that is not liked by all. Therefore (its path) is close to (your) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is simpler and weaker than water, but for killing things that are strong and strong nothing is necessary before - because nothing can be changed." of the people of China's regions to the nature of local water sources
"Living water" is used in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of healing the dead. Remember the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian distinction between living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth refers to a concept involving magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and craft
In the famous novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" is a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not only a "monotonous string of facts", but its phrases, like their theme, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the quiet quiescence of the concluding 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the most of the remarks remarks in the most of the moon. According to Ithaca, according to Hugh Kenner, literary critic, accomplishes "the unenviable task of crossing all the stories collected in school books." The literary theme of the story is "eternal life," the hymn is the theme of the book. to the range? Its world: its democratic balance and steadfastness in its search for its own level: its breadth to the sea Mercator's projection: its unplumbed profundity in the Sundam pit of the Pacific more than 8,000 waves of the surface of the Pacific more than 8,000 particles of the sea. coast: the uniqueness of its units: the variation of the sea states: its water temperature in the calm: its hydrokinetic movement in the neap and spring tides: its subsidence after the breakup: its subsidence in the polar, Arctic and Antarctic ice sheets: its climate and commercial importance: its amount of dry land: its amount of dry land. which extends in square leagues throughout all the regions under the serpent of Capricorn below the region: the stability of many countries of its first basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances up to millions of tons of precious metals: the slowness of the erosion of the beam and the decrease of its weight and the volume of water: its weight and descending survey: valleys and high rivers: its gradation of colors into tropical and temperate and cold regions: its flows into the lakes of the earth including the rivers and streams of the sea and their branches and rivers of the sea: the valley, the north and the south of the valley: the violence in the sea valleys, watercourses, watercourses. fresh waters, stones, hurricanes, water flows, water areas, hot springs, maelstroms, hurricanes, maelstroms, hurricanes, floods, cloudbursts: its great circumterrestrial ahorizontal nest: its hidden in the wells, and hidden moisture, the rhabdomantic and hyemplmetrical door in the wall of the city and the concrete in the concrete the air of the air, the drying of the dew: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its healing powers: its power in the waters of the Dead Sea: its power in the canals, canals, canals that are not right, leaking on the ship: it quenches its thirst and extinguishes the fire. paradigm and example: its forms like fog, mist, cloud, rain, rain, snow, hail: its force in dry waters: its forms in valleys and bays and valleys and valleys and valleys and valleys and islands and sounds and valleys and machines and valleys of the sea, valleys of the tide. icefloes: its ease of working in hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and sculptures: its power comes from trapped tides, water streams falling from level to level, if not (bemarine) Generally, the people of the world: its extent is 90% of the human body: the damage of its effluvia in lacustrine swamps, pestential fens, faded flower water, pools in the fading light. Painter and volunteer Fredericka Foster organized The Value of Water, at St. Mary's Church. The largest exhibition to take place at the Cathedral, over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an eclectic group of artists who use water as a subject or theme. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being recognized as a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to demonstrate the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is an appropriate chemical name but water is rarely used. This name has been used in a series of misrepresentations and misrepresentations in the absence of academic knowledge. This started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. Misleading are safety concerns about the substance. Song
The word "Water" has been used by many paramedics in Florida as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Fans who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 song Danny Towers "Florida Water". See also
Notes
Reference
Activities mentioned
Read more
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of water science (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water online
Water engineering and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the world", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for Water and Mineral Resources Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary