Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known forms of life, even though it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. The clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotraspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in bodies of salt and fresh water was, and still is, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat through seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, ice skating, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic * watar (also source of Old Saxon Watar, Old Frisian Wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European * root form of water *'; Also related, via the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wāj. History
In the World
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen, hydrogen is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. the States
Along with oxide, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does this while in liquid form. It is also unusual in that it becomes much less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms that reside in the lakes perish during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets you can achieve a noticeable interaction. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into steam at its surface through evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition on aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze drying process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar molar heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at one point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be compressed or expanded gradually between densities such as gas and liquids; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at appropriate pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, Ic ice, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a superionic ice phase centered on the surface, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that increased the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which the hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the possibility of water to avoid too salty or putrid water. Color and appearance
Pure water is visible blue because of the absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the swimming pool. In nature, the color can also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with a short path length can be used. To observe the fundamental absorption spectrum of absorption of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and not soluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material that is in common use for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners are valence electron pairs that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5 °, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter gives the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules form protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including many metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a molecule of water in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to an O–H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is invoked by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, along with the solvation of hydroxide ions and the resulting hydroxide. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (approximately 0.03 dB/km to 1 kHz), a property that is exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the World
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water around the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are in focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found above, below, and on the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or pond. The majority of water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rock, which form the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves perpetually through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from the water vapor that condenses from the air and falls on the land or the ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff into the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, has several forms: mainly rain, snow, and ice, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that are condensed when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface starts to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce a rainbow. Runoff often collects on water that flows into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment and creates river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, drought is an extended period of months or years when a region notices a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average precipitation either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global fresh water, about 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in the underground water; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The length of time that water is stored is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can vary on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A substantial fraction of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from aquifers stored in reservoirs, and when withdrawal exceeds recharge, stocks decrease. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawal, which causes groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, along with smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of the water in the main seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth together with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which most of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the earth are teeming with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend portions of their lives in water and portions on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in several ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including breathing tubes (see insect siphons and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around major rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC - c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the tributaries that flow from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water fit for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Water that is not fit for drinking can be made fit for drinking by filtration or distillation, or by a range of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit to drink but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is very technical and is generally monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting waste water (most commonly sewage, also called municipal waste water) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it result from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and increasing populations. Currently, almost a billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; some five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million deaths of children from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater remains untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with roughly a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these take more water each year than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects fresh surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most substantial human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for water collection, purification, and delivery, and wastewater disposal. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, the consumption of meat thirsty for water expands, and new demands increase for biofuels or new industries that use a lot of water, likely new challenges for water. In 2007 an assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out by the International Institute of Water Management in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. He assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped the places suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—equivalent to a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage was caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was needed. Therefore a work was commissioned to precisely determine the mass of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the stated definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and to perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which at the time was measured as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small quantity of heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of the heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinks
The human body contains, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or drinks other than drinking water. The medical literature favors a lower intake, typically a liter of water for an average man, excluding extra requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that excess water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council of the United States read: "An ordinary standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this quantity is found in prepared foods." The latest dietary reference intake report from the US National Research Council generally recommended, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water provided about 19% of the water for women. Specifically, pregnant and lactating women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.79 imp gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal). gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), as an especially large amount of fluid is lost during lactation. Also, about 20% of water intake comes from food and drinks (including (caffeine) is removed from the body in multiple forms; through sweat, and by exhalation of water vapor. The daily fluid loss will also increase. Common impurities such as copper and lead pesticides, PFAS, and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and to provide necessary electrolytes. The largest freshwater resource (by volume) is Lake Baikal in Siberia
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reagents well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Fresh water may even be available naturally from a lake or the sea. It is especially effective in transporting heat through vaporization and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized faster with untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and the cooling liquid (used to exchange the waste heat to a body of water or carry it away by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, since removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are preferred to stop a reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting fluid. The evaporation of the water carries the heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water and produce water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from the fire extinguisher but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused the water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion could have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, mainly those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that it can develop a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these are wet, they can ignite as their contents react with the water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water to be calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and sewage services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection cisterns, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are developing. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtering which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation does all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, delivery of tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need free of charge. Reducing use by using potable (drinking) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the single greatest misuse of water; to the extent that pollution limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not fit into standard market cost accounting, as it is thought of as externalities that the market cannot account for. Thus other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have detrimental effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous slurry or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting source of renewable energy. The energy is supplied by the movement of water. Typically it is already built on a river, and creates an artificial lake behind it. The water that comes out of the lake is forced by turbines that turn generators. Water under pressure is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating, or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and the heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and disposal. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or in its gaseous state, steam. The water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is rated based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is produced rapidly in this hot dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and that of other star systems, many other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the entire atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in ice only; and that of her moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even discovered in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in the Saturnian moon of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
The moon of Jupiter: the face of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other related objects of the Kuiper belt and the Oort cloud
And it is probably also present on:

Mercury poles
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably comprise most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float around the free oxygen. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to some extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth are vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. The Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to retain an atmosphere, including air humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin atmospheres or none at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on the environmental pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as has been observed on exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water policy is a policy affected by water and water resources. Water, particularly fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes impacts on health and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but around one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be facing water-based vulnerability. A report, released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong river is one example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that careful and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However during the last 40 years, water consumption has increased by approximately 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of this flood between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management carries out projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "Water Bankruptcy" because more than 50% of large lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries at least 4 billion people experience a month, a scarcity of a billion years and scarcity for every a year. $307 billion a year. She called for policies that match reality rather than the norms of the past. In the culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to cleanse a person or area (eg, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of persons, places, and objects, or as a means to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and considered it as ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associated water with phlegm, as cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is seen in its benefiting all things, and in its occupation, without striving (to the contrary), the low place which all men dislike. Therefore (his way) is close to (that of the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet for the attack of things that are firm and strong there is nothing that can take precedence of it—for there is nothing (so effective) to which it can be changed." which attributes natural qualities of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply "a monotonous sequence of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they fade into the calm silence of the conclusion "pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning most passing in the waning most passing". Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of it raises to poetry all the clutter of footling information that has accumulated in school books." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal life, ever-changing," and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What is in the water Bloom, waterlover, water drawer, watercarrier return to the range, admire? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its own level search: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeds 8,000 fathoms: the sea: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic calmness in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in tides and spring: its fall after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar ice caps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its preponderance of 3 to 1 arid world: leagues over the entire region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: stability centuries of its primordial basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: slow erosions of peninsulas and descending promontories: its alluvial deposits: its high weight and volume: its gradation of colors in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: the ramifications of its vehicles in continental lakes contained confluent streams and rivers that lead the ocean with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, turrets, torrents, watersheds, fresh watershed waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secrecy in springs, and hidden moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well from the hole of the air of distillation, the saturation of the air of Ashtown, simplicity its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its possibility in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetrability in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on the ship: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nutrition of its vegetation as a paradigm and metamorphos: fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, ice: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and bowels and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, dofloice in hydrauiceberg. mill wheels, turbines, dynamo, electric power plants, bleachers, tanneries, mills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and graving: its potentiality is derived from exploited tides or water channels falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic: literally the fauna and its underwater flora (anacoustic, photophobic) ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the damage of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. The painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, in the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored a year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever seen at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, William Kentridge, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. The members created Think About Water include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod.To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives.A parody of hydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of a safety concern about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many rappers based in Florida as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

The World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Timeline of Water Conflicts: A Database of Water Conflicts Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of water science (USGS)
A portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and associated publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary