Water is a chemical compound made of H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless drug. It is a major part of the world's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is the aqueous solution of all known living organisms, which acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences intermolecular hydrogen bonding that contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all living organisms, although it does not provide nutritional energy or be an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its universal abundance, and its strong polarity in relation to its molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because Earth's temperature and pressure are close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as solid, liquid, and gas. They produce gases like rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid surface. When properly broken up, crystalline ice can fall as snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the earth's surface, and oceans and seas make up most of the water (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water are found as groundwater (1.7%), in the ice and glaciers of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as water vapor, clouds (containing ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and rain (0.001%). Water flows continuously through the processes of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, rain, and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70 percent of the fresh water that people use goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, a major source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance commodity trade (such as oil, gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by barge across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in factories and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for various substances, both mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industries as well as in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also important for many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-wod-or'water 'wod-or,' Proto-Indo-European *wod-wod-or,'' water. It is also related, through an Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. Room temperature is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a slight blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most well-known and sometimes called the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it cannot dissolve non-polar substances. This makes it a "biological solvent": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemical-free water. Water is the only substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and pure gas on earth. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the compound H2O; and the liquid phase of H2O. The two most common forms of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the air phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and condensation (steam to ice). Crowding
Water is one of the few substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled within a certain temperature range; the only known naturally occurring substance that does this is water. In addition, it is unusual because it is very small when it freezes, although it is not unusual in this case. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98°C (39.16°F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (shrinks) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, up to 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressures, burst pipes and broken rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual quality of cohesion and becomes dense when it cools. These unusual temperatures have important consequences for life on Earth. In seas or oceans, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid surface. This ice protects the water below it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic life that lives in these lakes would die out in the winter. In addition, this strange behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the world's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets they can achieve a known interaction. Change of parameters
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steams at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization in all liquids is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition are also done on the surface. For example, snow is deposited on a cold surface where snowballs are formed and deposited on aerosol particles or ice cores. During freeze-drying, food is frozen and stored at a low temperature so that the ice on the surface falls off. The melting point and boiling point depend on the pressure. A good approximation of the change in melting temperature and pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\form {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

to 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\form v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\form v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of water and solid fractions, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\form L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most cases, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting of ice can occur below the surface of the ice sheet, causing the sea to be submerged. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to hot surfaces, but with the water/gas transition the vapor phase is much smaller than the liquid phase, so the temperature increases with pressure. Water can become liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, water boils at 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the temperature drops by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Surface cooking takes longer than sea cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by one quarter to achieve the desired temperature. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce the cooking time by raising the temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Three principles and difficulties
On the pressure/temperature diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called a triangle, where all three parts can be together. The triple point has a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, these three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/air boiling point is 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the fundamental principle. At high temperature and pressure, water and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can be slowly compressed or expanded between densities such as gas and water; Its property (which is very different from the surrounding water) is sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with non-polar chemicals, including many organic compounds. This makes them useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as organic solvents or solvents in mechanical processes involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent for salt formation, melting and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The normal type of ice on Earth is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with a hexagonal configuration. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur on the surface. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystals. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more tentatively predicted. Eighteen forms of ice, ice XVIII, the middle part of the cubic, superionic ice, were found when a drop of water was affected by water shocks that raised the water to millions of air and its temperature reached thousands of degrees, which caused the solid oxygen atoms in which the hydrogen atoms move freely. When placed between the layers of graphene, the ice forms a central square. The specifics of the liquid medicine are not well understood; some theories show that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two layers of liquid. Taste and smell
Fresh water is often said to be tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to have a sense of smell. However, water from common areas (including salt water) often contains a lot of dissolved substances that can cause different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed energy-sensing abilities that help them monitor water conditions to avoid too salty or polluted water. Color and texture
Clear water appears blue due to absorption of light in this region c. 600-800 nm. This color can be easily seen in a glass of tap water placed against a white background, during the day. Large groups absorb that cause the color and overtones of O-H stretch vibration. The intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water, following Mowa's law. This also works, for example, with a swimming pool when the source of light and sunlight is reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with liquid solutions because low liquid concentrations mean that glass cuvettes with short channels can be used. To observe the required absorption rate of water or liquid solution in an area around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette should be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the most commonly used substances in cuvette windows with water channels. The basic Raman vibration can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches areas of the ocean below a depth of 1,000 meters (3,300 ft). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), 1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and the well-known types of glass 1 (1.6). The refraction index of ice (1.31) is lower than liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on the air. At the other two corners there are only valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms can form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Some elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atom has a low charge. Together with the bent shape, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugar and simple alcohol such as alcohol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter gives carbonated air, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many living things, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules creates the folding of proteins, DNA base pairing, and other important life events (hydrophobic effect). Many natural substances (such as oils and fats and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic compounds are also insoluble, including many metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid can form 4 hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that holds molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting point of hot water is higher than that of other similar types like hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its high thermal conductivity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These things help water to regulate the climate of the Earth, by keeping heat and transporting it between the ocean and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially relativistic. These structures are responsible for the high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is a bond of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with the dissolution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical current, which increases with the dissolution of low ionic substances such as common salts. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the opposite method (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered immobile for many reasons: its relative density ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers from a reduction of 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water without any attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), the environment used by cetaceans and humans to communicate and hear the environment (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkali metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the world. The study of water distribution and hydrography. Research on the distribution and movement of groundwater and hydrogeology, glaciers and glaciology, inland water and limnology and the distribution of lakes and oceans. Environmental processes and hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The volume of water found above, below, and above the earth's surface is called the hydrosphere. The average surface water (all water on Earth) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as lakes, ponds, lakes, streams, rivers, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is in the sea. Water is also found in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It is also found as groundwater in water. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater occurs in many rocks, and groundwater pressure affects fault patterns. The water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in small areas. On Earth, water is essential for climate and physical activity. Water, and to a lesser but important extent, ice, also contribute to the amount of waste that occurs on Earth. The deposition of sediments creates many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the history of the earth. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water flows continuously through all these areas in a water system with the following processes:

Evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the atmosphere and the release of land plants and animals into the atmosphere. rain, from water vapor falling from the atmosphere and falling to the earth or ocean. runoff from land often reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor that is found mainly in the sea returns, but the wind carries the water vapor to the land in the same way as the water that runs to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and air flow that occurs on land contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at the rate of 119 Tt per year on land, has several forms: usually rain, snow, hail, and contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when excess water vapor comes into contact with a cold environment. Dew is usually formed in the morning when the temperature is very low, just after the sun rises and when the temperature of the earth starts to rise. Water in the atmosphere can also reflect sunlight to create rainbows. Flood water often accumulates in water channels that flow in rivers. Through erosion, floodwaters create river valleys and waterfalls that provide rich soil and habitat for humans. Flooding occurs when land, usually low-lying, is covered by water from a river overflowing its banks or from a storm. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when an area experiences a shortage of water. This happens when a region receives less rainfall either because of its location or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water is natural water that can be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water is available as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as oceans, water vapor, groundwater or ground water, and ice and snow. About 69 percent of the world's fresh water is stored in permafrost; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in seas, rivers, air, and natural resources. The length of time that water is stored varies greatly: some underwater areas have water stored for thousands of years, but sea levels can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during the wet season and increasing during the wet season. A large portion of the water in some areas is extracted from aquifers stored in reservoirs, and as withdrawals increase, stocks decrease. According to some estimates, about 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from stagnant groundwater, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus other minor elements. The appearance of sea water differs from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a low temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature drops to the freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum at higher temperatures than at freezing. The salinity of the water in the main seas varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salt content of between 30 and 40%, is a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local water levels caused by the influence of the Moon and Sun on the ocean. Tides cause changes in water depth in oceans and rivers and produce tidal streams. The changes in tides produced at a given location are the result of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The coastline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important biological and tidal feature. Effects on life
In terms of living things, water has many different properties that are necessary for life to flourish. It does this by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that allow for replication. All known living things depend on water. Water is important as a solvent in which most of the body's substances dissolve and as an important part of the body's metabolism. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy that requires an enzymatic chemical reaction) to grow larger molecules (for example, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fat and information). In catabolism, water is used to break down bonds to make smaller molecules (for example, sugars, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, this metabolism cannot exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split hydrogen gas into water and air. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from the air or water) to form sugar and produce carbon dioxide. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and change water and CO2 during this process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutralization and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H +, that is, a proton) donor, can be reduced by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in ideal conditions. Acids have a pH less than 7 while bases have a pH greater than 7. Forms of aquatic life
Earth's surface water is teeming with life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of sea animals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as aquatic life, spend part of their lives in water and others on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of other underwater life. Plankton is often the basis of seafood. Aquatic life needs fresh air to survive, and it does so in a variety of ways. Fish have lungs instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine animals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to land from time to time to breathe. Some amphibians can absorb air through their skin. Invertebrates show a variety of adaptations to survive in poorly aerated waters including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrates evolved to live in water, many have little or no ability to breathe in water. Impact on human development
Development has been successful along the main rivers and streams; Mesopotamia, one of the places called the beginning of civilization, was between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptians depended on the Nile River. The early civilization of the Indus Valley (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) began along the banks of the Indus River, a tributary of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are due to their success in part due to their easy access by water and the development of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have grown for the same reason. In areas such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water was very useful for human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable or saline water. Fractured water can be broken down by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is safe to drink but not harmful to humans when used for bathing or bathing is referred to by different names other than salt water or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a substance that irritates the skin and mucous membranes that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often regulated by state regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of chlorine that has not yet been exposed to sewage effluent). Bath water can be kept in a satisfactory condition for germs by using disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water recycling is the process of converting wastewater (which is often discharged into sewage systems, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which is also controlled by natural hydrologic processes, but the problems of access to water are caused by the different distribution of natural resources in space and time, the growth of the agricultural and industrial economy, and the increase in population. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals to halve by the year 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve global access to safe, affordable and clean water by 2030. Insufficient water and poor sanitation are dangerous; about five million people die every year from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization says that clean water can help prevent 1.4 million children from dying of diarrhea every year. In developing countries, 90% of all wastewater still ends up in rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about one third of the world's population, also have moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of these countries produce more water per year than is recharged in natural water systems. This problem not only affects freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also affects groundwater. Human resources
Agriculture
Most of the water used by humans is agriculture, including irrigation, which accounts for about 80 to 90 percent of all people's water consumption. In the United States, 42% of the fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "used" (that is used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed advanced water systems to collect, purify, and supply water, and to remove waste water. But economic, demographic, and climate pressures are increasing on water issues, leading to competition for sustainable water, leading to the concept of premium water. As populations and economies grow, thirst for water increases, and new demands for fossil fuels or new water-using industries arise, new water challenges may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to assess whether the world has enough water to feed a growing population. It also looked at the availability of water for agriculture around the world and highlighted areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. A further 1.6 billion people live in water-scarce areas, where lack of water or insufficient supply of water prevents public authorities from providing adequate water. The report found that it is possible to produce the food we need in the future, but the continuation of modern food production and environmental conditions could cause problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must work to increase yields to meet food demand, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of products that use a lot of water. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton uses 2.4% of the world's water, water is consumed in areas at risk of water scarcity. A great deal of environmental damage has occurred: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton has largely contributed to the loss of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the total weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters, and the temperature of melting ice". However, in order to be used, the metal level of iron was required, twice a thousand, kilograms. So a job was given to find out exactly how much one liter of water is. Although the official definition of the gram specified water at 0°C (32°F)—the highest temperature—scientists chose to reinterpret the standard and test their water at the highest water temperature, which was measured at the time as 4°C (39°F). The Kelvin temperature of the SI system was based on three liquids, which are defined exactly at 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but since May 2019 they have adopted Boltzmann's constants. Its scale is a temperature scale similar to the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The number of the heaviest isotope is very low, but it still affects the strength of the water. The water in rivers and lakes has a higher concentration of isotopes than in the sea. Therefore, mean ocean water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. Drinks
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can be between 45% and 75%. The U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water for adults and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. Its amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, etc. Most of these are ingested through food or drink other than drinking plain water. Medical literature recommends drinking less, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, except for other needs due to dehydration due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete about 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this. People can drink more water than they need during exercise, putting them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be fatal. What many people say that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no scientific basis. Studies have shown that drinking extra water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, was associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent constipation. The original recommendation for drinking water in 1945 was given by the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board. The National Research Council states: "The normal range for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in processed foods." The latest U.S. Food and Drug Administration report. The National Research Council recommended, based on the amount of water consumed from US survey data (including food): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 total) of non-hydrating 19% of the US. the amount of water consumed in this study. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need extra water to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume three liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should drink 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should drink 3 liters (12 cups), because a lot of water is lost during breastfeeding. What is also known is that in general, about 20% of the water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is removed from the body in different ways; through urine and faeces, sweating, and inhalation of water vapor in the air. With vigorous exercise and heat, water loss increases and daily fluid needs may increase. People want water with less impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and dangerous bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and necessary to add flavor and provide essential electrolytes. Lake Baikal in Siberia is the largest (by volume) of freshwater. Bathing
Directions
Drug use
Water is widely used in pharmaceuticals as a solvent or solvent and often as a solute or catalyst. In rare cases, water is a common solvent, dissolving most ionic compounds, and some polar compounds such as ammonia are compounds that are closely related to water. In organic reactions, they are not used as solvents, because they do not dissolve well and are amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these things are sometimes important. Also, the Diels-Alder reaction with water has been observed. Superfluid has recently become a topic of research. Oxygen-rich water effectively burns pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are the liquids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high temperature, for cooling and heating. Cold water can be found in seas or oceans. It is particularly effective in transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. The downside is that industrial metals such as steel and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a liquid (used as a seal between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and as a coolant (used to exchange heat from the waste to water or carry it with steam in the cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants are the largest water users. In nuclear power plants, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear power plants, the water is cold and controlled. This provides something of a safety net, since removing water from the reactor also reduces nuclear power. However, other methods are recommended for stopping the reaction and it is best to keep the core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Thoughts of fire
Water has a high vaporization temperature and is very thin, which makes it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The heat of the water releases the heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on a fire involving fuel and organic solvents because many substances float on water and the water can spread the burning water. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in closed spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances in contact with water, such as other metals or hot gases such as coal, coal, or coke graphite, decompose water, releasing water vapor. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl accident, although the water involved in this case did not come from fire extinguishers but from the reactor's cooling system. Evaporation occurred when the high temperature of the core caused water to vaporize. The hydrogen explosion was probably caused by the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkali metals, produce so much heat with water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced product that is often carried in paper bags. If this gets wet, it can burn when the contents react with water. Interesting
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and scuba diving. In addition, other sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Seasides, beaches and reservoirs are popular places where people go to relax and have fun. Many consider the sound and appearance of running water to be soothing, and fountains and other running water are popular decorations. Others keep fish and plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for play, entertainment, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be as low as ice or crystallized in snow. Water industry
Water companies provide drinking water and non-waste water (including sewage) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection wells, water supply networks, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old canals. Space generators are growing. Drinking water is usually collected from springs, taken from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in good locations is a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the springs can produce enough water. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This may include the removal of insoluble materials, spoilage materials and pathogens. The most common methods are sand filtration which only removes insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill pathogens. Distillation does all three things. Advanced methods are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of most seawater is an expensive process used in arid coastal areas. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, delivery tanks or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the poor without payment. Reducing the use of potable (drinking) water for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for sewage treatment throughout the city to preserve freshwater. Water pollution may be one of the biggest misuses of water; to the extent that a pollutant prevents other water functions, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not include market value accounting, which is considered an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus some people pay the cost of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local people, who are affected by this pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in water and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they accumulate and if they are not broken down. Municipal and industrial wastewater is often treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reducing the flow of contaminated surface water is managed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on the use of water-soluble chemicals, the suspension of solids in wastewater or the use of water to dissolve and leach products, or to wash products or equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical spraying, interior cleaning, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling use large amounts of water, which require dedicated water, and often cause water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity generated from hydropower. The electric power comes from the water that drives the water machine connected to the generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. This energy is provided by the flow of water. Often a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water from the lake is forced through a power plant that turns generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High-speed water guns are used for fine cutting. It works very well, is safe, and does not harm the environment. They are also used to cool machines to prevent overheating, or to protect saws from overheating. Water is also used in many industries and machines, such as steam turbines and boilers, in addition to its role as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from factories and pollution. Pollution includes waste solvents (chemical waste) and waste cooling water (thermal waste). Companies need clean water for many purposes and use different purification methods for water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI "could "threaten global water security". Food processing
Boiling, heating, and boiling are common cooking methods that often involve submerging food in water or its air, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also has many important functions in food science. Dissolved substances such as salt and sugar in water affect the quality of water. The temperature and coldness of water is affected by solutes, and the pressure of air, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures and lower air pressure occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles reduces the water's freezing point. Water-soluble substances also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of viruses in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Water-soluble substances reduce the activity of water-this is important to know because the growth of most bacteria stops at very low water levels. Not only does the growth of pathogens affect food safety, but also the storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is an important factor in food processing and can be changed or improved using ion exchange systems. It can have a significant impact on the quality of drugs, as well as involvement in hygiene practices. Water hardness is classified based on the amount of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is considered soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is low in the world and that the degradation process determines the amount of water used for cattle production. Drug use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In nature
Most of the water in the universe is created as a result of the formation of stars. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When these emissions hit the surrounding air, shock waves are created to compress and heat the air. The observed water is rapidly formed in this hot frozen air. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the oceans on Earth combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "this study shows that water has been abundant in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been found in the interstellar cloud within the Milky Way. It is possible that water is also found in abundance in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the examples of the formation and evolution of the Sun and other stars, many other planets may have similar properties. Water vapor
Water is found as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in the visible world
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and most of the water in Mercury's exosphere
In the atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% at full surface, usually 1-4% at surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in order of abundance
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
In the atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and its moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% is Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in pressure less than 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - found in the deep atmosphere
Extra solar planets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not only contains cool stars but also visible in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also found in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water can be found in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer coastal lake about 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus in the south polar, and Titan, as a small part, mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate the presence of a liquid ocean. Liquid water is also found on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-speed ice and rock. Ice water
Water exists as ice at:

 Mars: under regolith and on trees. The Earth-Moon system: especially as ice on Earth and in the Lunar lines and volcanic rocks NASA reported that water molecules were detected by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper in the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the earth and above the mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets are related to the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it's also available at:

Pictures of Mercury
Tethys

Strange species
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the interior of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deep layers can be like ionic water where the molecules fall into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and more deeply like surface water where air appears, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the air. Water is the habitable planet
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential for life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow three species to exist at the same time would be less. The size of the earth also plays a role: gravity allows it to contain air, including air humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have very little or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a greenhouse effect that helps keep surface temperatures constant when they are high. The state of water on a planet depends on the atmospheric pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If the planet is large enough, the water on it can be solid even at temperature, due to high pressure due to gravity, as it was observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Laws, politics, and problems
Water politics is politics that affects water and water. Water, especially fresh water, is the world's most precious resource and an important factor in many political conflicts. It affects health and destroys biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades almost all over the world, but about 1 billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion people do not have adequate sanitation. However, some experts have said that by the year 2025, more than half of the world's population will be facing water shortages. The report, which was released in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing areas of the world, water will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to clean water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. through mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international efforts to improve the management of aid, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been well received by donors in the water sector as they have been in education and health, which can leave many donors working with recipient governments without being empowered to take action. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture said that good governance is one of the reasons for the lack of water. Water governance is a formal and informal process by which decisions about water management are made. Good water governance requires identifying what works best both physically and economically. Sometimes mistakes have been made in trying to apply 'plans' that work in developed countries to regional development and international affairs. The Mekong River is one example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of Policy in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water supply found that thorough and transparent cost-effectiveness and environmental assessments were rarely carried out. He also found that Cambodia's mandatory water labeling law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from a preventable water-related disease, often caused by poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to improved sanitation. Urban dwellers (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been reported to be widespread, due to overuse and pollution. The report stated that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with severe water stress. However, in the last 40 years, drinking water has increased by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has increased four times, while flooding in the north-central region has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of flooding between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water security include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute works with the goal of using water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations announced that people have entered an era of "water scarcity" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's people live in countries without water, 4 billion people, the lack of water is about $3 billion every year. a year. It called for real parallel policies rather than precedents. In culture
Religion
Water is considered to be cleansing in many religions. Beliefs that include ritual washing (washing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or submersion or immersion) of a person in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in holy water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can usually be performed after washing other parts of the body using clean water (wudhu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (for example, in the misogi ceremony). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been purified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places, and things, or as a means of removing evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Wisdom
The Ancient Greek philosopher, Empedocles, considered water to be one of the four primitive elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be the most important element in the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, said that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things are made from water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it moves easily compared to the earth made of a cube. The theory of the four humors of the body associates water and phlegm, as do cold and dampness. The element of water was also one of the five elements in Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian practices take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "Higher success is like (that of) water. The success of water is seen in its benefiting all things, and in its grasping, without effort (on the contrary), the low places that all people dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "In the world there is nothing softer and weaker than water, yet to fight with hard and strong things because nothing can begin - there is nothing (more effective) which can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter clearly explains the "characteristics of water" to announce the human nature, to announce the character of water and the "nature" of water. different Chinese communities to the culture of the local people
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of raising the dead. See the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the collective idea of ​​a magical water that is said to prevent aging. Art is activism
In the most important modern book Ulysses (1922) written by the Irish writer James Joyce, the title "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "song of water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not "realistic", on the contrary, its words, like their title, "ebb and flow, heave and sweave, gather and break, until they descend into the calmness of the final quiescence of 'plague stripes, withered flowers, water of broken flowers, stagnant pool of many waters of the moon". Ithaca's impressive passages, and according to one novelist, Hugh Kenner, accomplishes "the impossible task of raising the poem to the mass of ground-carrying knowledge that has accumulated in the textbooks." The written word for water represents the book's theme of "eternal, changing life," and this song represents the end of the motif in the book. Below is the full version of the song. What did Bloom, the water lover, the water carrier, the water carrier back to land, admire? Its whole nature: its democratic equality and its immovable nature in search of its level: its size in the sea of ​​Mercator's projection: its constant depth in the Sundam canal of the Pacific coast visiting successively all the points of its sea: the independence of its units: the fluctuation of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in the calm: hydrokinetic turgidity in the waves near the spring: its subsidence after the destruction: its hardness in the surrounding icecaps, in the upper and upper reaches of the land: 3 its high sign and trade: the dry land of the world: its irresistible power that spreads in the courts throughout the area under the tropics of Capricorn: stability of the different types of its base basin: its smooth bed: its ability to dissolve and store all the dissolved substances including millions of tons of precious metals and its surrounding subsidence: alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: its immobility in water and high tarns: its distribution of colors in warm and hot and cold climates: its form of traffic in coastal seas and flowing oceans that overflow with their rivers, north rivers and south rivers earthquakes, water streams, water wells, eruptions, streams, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, waterfalls, water, geysers, hail, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, floods, cloudbursts: its large area around the earth, revealed by the central tides, and waves: rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments are an example of a well and a hole in the wall on Ashtown gate, air saturation, dew distillation: its simplicity of composition, two parts of hydrogen and one part of air: its healing virtue: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: dams, spills on a ship: its cleansing property, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: its infallibility as a paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, rain, snow, hail, hail: its power in solid metals: shape His variety is worms and worms. and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and waves seas and arms of the sea: its strength in ice, icebergs, icebergs: its docility in the use of hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power, bleachworks, tanneries, rivers, rivers, rivers, rivers, rivers, rivers. docks: its potential from built waves or rivers that fall from level to level: its aquatic animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) in number, if not, living in the world: its presence that makes up 90% of the human body: the danger of its flowers, green flowers, small flowers. stagnant pools in the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which inspired the Cathedral's year-long work on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever seen at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, a group of environmentalists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark 10 years since the UN declared access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten artists to show how clean water affects people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used name for water. The name has been used in a series of lies and nonsense that mocks scientific ignorance. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day story appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake news was about the product's safety. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida musicians as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Performers include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Furthermore, some musicians have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Listed works
Another reading
External links

World's Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict: A History of the Water Conflict Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to The World Bank's strategy, projects and other publications related to water
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Internet
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary