Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and virtually colorless chemical. It is the main component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Since water is a polar molecule, it undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to water's triple point, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of floating droplets of water and ice, its solid form. When the crystalline ice is finely divided, it can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for the majority of the water volume (approximately 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapour, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water in the air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water constantly moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff and usually reaches the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been and remains an important food source for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas and manufactured products) is transported by boat across seas, rivers, lakes and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow also play a central role in many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, boat racing, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffix form of root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also related, via the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, virtually colorless with a hint of blue. It is the simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, by far the most studied chemical compound, and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the 'solvent of life': water as found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as solid, liquid and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. States
Together with oxidan, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, that is, ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor), and deposition (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does this while in a liquid. Furthermore, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, causing pipes to burst and rocks to crack. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water underneath, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would perish during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that spreads heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve remarkable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). But even below the boiling point, water at the surface can turn to vapor through evaporation (evaporation through the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice core. During freeze-drying, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on the surface sublimates. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation for the rate at which the melting temperature changes with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

true 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. For most substances, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice has a lower density than water, its melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, causing the boiling point to increase with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point decreases by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the boil time must be increased by one-fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to shorten cooking times by increasing the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gaseous and liquid densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including electrochemistry at high temperatures and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice When ice is sandwiched between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from regular sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances, which can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the drinkability of water and avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the area c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool where the light source is sunlight that is reflected by the white tiles of the swimming pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended substances or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower harmonics of water means that glass cuvettes with a short path length can be used. To observe the fundamental stretch absorption spectrum of water or of an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for the cuvette windows containing aqueous solutions. For example, the Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live up to hundreds of meters deep in water because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below a depth of 1,000 meters (3,300 ft). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), comparable to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glasses (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of a tetrahedron, centered on the oxygen. On the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the individual pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter provides the effervescence of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with adjacent molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force, which pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain the exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O-H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partly covalent. These compounds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move against gravity through a narrow tube. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, coupled with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when it dissolves a small amount of ionic material, such as table salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it – a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 x 10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water undergoes a volume drop of only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metal elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes involving hydrology are central to ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth's estimated water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor phases. It also occurs as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks and the pressure of this groundwater influences fracture patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water continuously moves through each of these regions in the water cycle, consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other water bodies into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, due to water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mainly in the ocean returns to it, but the wind transports water vapor over land at the same rate as discharge to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor hits a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and as the Earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight and produce rainbows. Runoff water often collects over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water. This occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is an extended period of months or years during which a region experiences a shortage of water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below-average precipitation, either due to its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water sources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both 'supplies' and 'flows'. Water can be stored in the form of lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant portion of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, supplies decline. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, which depletes groundwater. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in a number of important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to freezing, rather than reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of the water in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels, caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies, producing oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, coupled with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of coast that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the ocean's tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are crucial for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately enable replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital, both as a solvent in which many solutes in the body dissolve, and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. Anabolism involves removing water from molecules (by energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). Catabolism uses water to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that can be used as fuels for energy expenditure or other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split the hydrogen in water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy, reforming water and CO2 (cellular respiration). Water also plays a central role in acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e., a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values ​​less than 7, while bases have values ​​greater than 7. Life forms in the water
Earth's surface water is filled with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton generally forms the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in different ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, must periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated water, including breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of Italy's Tiber River. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean drinking water has been and continues to be an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water that is suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking, but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing, is called by names other than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1 to 2 ppm chlorine that has not yet reacted with impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of urban wastewater are produced annually worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressure on access to it results from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demand from agriculture and industry, and rising population. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals to halve the number of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; Approximately five million deaths are caused by water-related diseases every year. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea every year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still ends up untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with roughly a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these countries withdraw more water annually than is replenished through their natural water cycles. The burden not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also affects groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built advanced water systems for collecting, purifying and delivering water, and removing wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water problems, leading to increasing competition for permanent water sources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and economy continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water challenges are likely. In 2007, an assessment of agricultural water management was conducted by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It showed that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report shows that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing current food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demand, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: the production of 1 kg of cotton, the equivalent of a pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters of water. Although cotton is responsible for 2.4% of global water use, the water is consumed in regions already at risk of water shortage. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, it was defined in France that the gram is equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a metal reference standard was needed, which was a thousand times heavier than the kilogram. It was therefore ordered to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the established definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F) – a highly reproducible temperature – the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of highest water density, which at the time was measured as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same step size as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined based on the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes generally contains fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere from 45% to 75% water. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gal) for women. The precise amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or drinks, except drinking pure water. The medical literature advocates a lower consumption, usually 1 liter of water for an average man, ignoring additional needs due to fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that “a person should consume eight glasses of water per day” appears to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that additional water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original 1945 recommendation for water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council stated: "A common standard for various persons is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The latest US National Research Council Dietary Reference Intake Report generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) of water overall for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water total for women, noting that water in food provided approximately 19% of total water intake in the study. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need extra fluid to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should receive 3 liters (12 cups) as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during lactation. It is also noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the remainder coming from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in multiple forms; through urine and feces, through sweating and by exhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and the daily fluid requirement may also increase. People need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide needed electrolytes. The largest (by volume) freshwater source suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Wash
Transportation
Chemical applications
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions it is not usually used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Yet these qualities are sometimes desirable. An acceleration of the Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water may even be naturally available from a lake or the sea. It is especially effective at transporting heat by evaporation and condensation of water because of its large latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals common in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a coolant (used to exchange the waste heat to a water body or by removing evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants consume the largest amount of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a kind of passive safety measure, because removing the water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop a reaction and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire Considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting fluid. The evaporation of water removes the heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to disperse the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined spaces, and of hydrogen explosion, where substances reacting with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coke graphite, decompose the water and produce water gas. The power of such explosions became apparent in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme superheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred due to a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that they can pose a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also called calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance often shipped in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can ignite because their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, where the water must be at a low temperature, either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater harvesting reservoirs, water supply networks and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including ancient aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial bores (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. So building more wells in suitable places is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This may involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is via municipal water systems, tanker truck delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to provide free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using drinking water exclusively for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater supplies. Contaminating water is perhaps the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this is not covered by standard market cost calculations because it is perceived as externalities that the market cannot take into account. In this way, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, who are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often enter waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reducing polluted surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions involving chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries, or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate energy. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydropower is generated by water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. The energy is provided by the movement of water. Normally, a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that drive generators. Pressurized water is used in water jetting and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used in cooling machines to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. In addition to its use as a chemical solvent, water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger. Discharging untreated water during industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). The industry needs pure water for many applications and uses various purification techniques, both for water supply and water drainage. The digital sector, and especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require food to be immersed in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many crucial roles in the field of nutritional science. Dissolved substances such as salts and sugars in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved solids, as well as by air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water increases the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg increases the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity. This is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect the safety of food, but also the shelf life and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product and also play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (US). According to a report published in 2010 by the Water Footprint organization, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters of water; However, the authors also make clear that this is a global average and that indirect factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually hits the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is produced rapidly in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been present in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water is probably also abundant in other galaxies because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the solar system and those of other galaxies, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapour
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the entire atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in trace amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
Sphere of Ceres
Atmosphere of Jupiter: 0.0004% – only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – in trace amounts below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in the deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: Not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of the surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice caps on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks. NASA reported in September 2009 the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud objects
And is probably also present on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules disintegrate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or further from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely. The size of the Earth also plays a role: gravity allows the Earth to retain an atmosphere, including humidity. Smaller planets such as Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that, when present in regular amounts, helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is sufficiently massive, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is politics influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health consequences and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion people lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report, released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, water demand will exceed supply by 50% in some developing areas of the world. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source. The percentage of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report states that "there is enough water for everyone", but access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid efficiency, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up as effectively by water sector donors as in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and leaving recipient governments without the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water management is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions regarding water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to locations and contexts in developing countries. The Mekong River is an example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries dependent on the Mekong River for their water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also discovered that Cambodia's water bill was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, prepared by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past forty years, and this is expected to continue at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has increased fourfold, while flooding in northern latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related treaties include the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have deteriorated since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, 4 billion people experience water scarcity at least one month a year, and droughts cost $307 billion a year. It called for policies that reflect reality and not past norms. On culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Beliefs that include ritual ablution (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or sprinkling) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (Mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can in most cases be performed after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, almost all rituals use water to cleanse a person or an area (for example, the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as a ylem, or fundamental substance, of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the Earth, which is more dense than water, emerged from the water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron, which flows easily compared to the cubic Earth. The theory of the four humors associated water with mucus because it was cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is manifested in the fact that it benefits all things, and that, without striving for it (on the contrary), it occupies the low place which all men hate. Hence (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet there is for attacking things that are firm and strong there is nothing that can take precedence - for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed." Guanzi further elaborates on the symbolism of water in the chapter "Shui di" 水地, proclaiming that "man is water" and ascribing natural qualities of the people of water. different Chinese regions according to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note Grimm's fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous series of facts," but rather its expressions, like their subject, "ebb and flow, swell and swell, gathering and breaking, until they sink into the calm tranquility of the closing 'pestilential fens, faded floral waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon.' The hymn is considered one of the most remarkable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the unlikely feat of raising into poetry all the clutter of information that has accumulated in school textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What in water did Bloom, water lover, water trekker, water bearer who returned to the mountain range admire? Its universality: the democratic equality and steadfastness of its nature in the search for its own level: the vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: the unfathomable depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific Ocean which exceeds 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of the waves and surface particles that in turn visit all points of the coastline: the independence of its units: the variability of states of the sea: its hydrostatic tranquility at calm: its hydrokinetic swollenness at neap and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its barrenness in the circumpolar ice caps, Arctic and Antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3-to-1 predominance over the dry lands of the world: its unquestionable hegemony extending in square miles over the entire area below the subequatorial tropic Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primordial basin: its luteofulous soil: its ability to dissolve and maintain in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and downslope promontory: its alluvial deposits: its weight, volume and density: its imperturbability in lagoons and highland lakes: its gradation of colors in the torrid, temperate and icy zones: its vehicular distributaries on the continental streams with lakes and confluent, oceanic flows rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: Gulf Stream, north and south equatorial courses: their violence in seaquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, whirlpools, freshwater currents, gulf streams, aquifers, catchments, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its enormous ahorizontal curve: its secrecy in springs and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and illustrated by the well at the hole in the wall at the Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent oxygen: its healing properties: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetration in gutters, trenches, inadequate dams, leaks on board ships: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapor, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and waves and bends and innards and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and inlets: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility in working hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleaching factories, tanneries, swing mills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and engraving docks: its potential can be inferred from tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its submarine fauna and flora (anaacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as it constitutes 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its discharge into lacustrine swamps, pestilential fens, faded floral waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring a yearlong cathedral initiative on our dependence on water. It was the largest exhibition ever to appear in the cathedral and featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To celebrate the tenth anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes that mock scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of concerns about the safety of the substance. Music
The word "Water" is used by many Florida rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Going even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida's water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water".
Comments
References
Works Cited
Read more
External links

The world's water data page
FAO comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived on January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water Science School (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Internet
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the weirdest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived on September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary