Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and virtually colorless chemical substance. It is the main feature of the Earth’s streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known organisms, in which it acts as a disinfectant. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known aspects of life, despite not providing food energy or being a natural micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Since Earth’s surface temperature and pressure are near the three-water point, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of vapor. Clouds contain suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When properly spaced, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth’s surface, with oceans and seas forming the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Smaller constituents of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as mist, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, evaporation (vapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Freshwater fishing has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by ship on oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for industrial and domestic cooling and heating. Water is an excellent disinfectant for a variety of substances, both mineral and natural; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, recreational boating, canoeing, surfing, sport fishing, swimming, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. A study of etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffix form of root *wed- ('water'; 'water'). It is also related, by Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), where English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History
On Earth
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special measures are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal terrestrial conditions. Governments
Along with oxidane, water is one of two formal names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. Two other common states of aqueous matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or vapour. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor), and deposition (vapor to ice). Physical density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance to do so in liquid form. Additionally, it is unusual because it becomes more unusual as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of the water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can experience extreme pressure, pipe bursting and rock fracturing. As a solid, it exhibits the typical behavior of contracting and becoming more dense as it cools. These unusual properties of heat have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, 4 °C (39 °F) water sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic life in the lakes would become extinct during the winter. In addition, this unusual behavior is an important component of the thermohaline flow that distributes heat around the planet’s oceans. Magnetic potential
Water is a diamagnetic medium. While the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnetism it can achieve detectable interaction. Phase changes
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor above it through evaporation (evaporation throughout a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, the food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so the ice on it sublimates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good estimate of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display mode {\frac{dT}{dP}}={\frac{T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\display mode v_{\text {L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display mode v_{\text {S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display mode L_{\text {f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most materials, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under fairly thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but in the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal holes, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As the atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. On the other hand, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three and important points
In the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These converge at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve terminates at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can compress or gradually expand between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can freely mix with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth’s mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and dissolution. Ice and water phases
A common form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. One with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystalline structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several more have been predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-cubic, superionic ice-stable phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised water pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, which resulted in a structure of fixed oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. Details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some studies suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid phases. Taste and aroma
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances which can give it distinct flavors and odours. Humans and other animals have evolved senses that enable them to assess water intake to avoid water that is too salty or contaminated. Color and appearance
Fresh water appears blue due to absorption of light in region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily seen in a glass of tap water set against a pure white background, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the pigment increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected off the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color may also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used in aqueous solutions as the high intensity of the low overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe a basic stretch absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material commonly used for cuvette windows containing aqueous solutions. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of feet deep, because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below a depth of 3,300 meters.The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Polarity of molecules
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of an oxygen-centered tetrahedron. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Some substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom is partially negatively charged while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the curved shape, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the fizz for carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other life-critical events (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are anhydrous, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds like hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its exceptionally high specific heat (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more efficient at moderating the Earth’s climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, an estimated 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the main surface water tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the upward tendency of water through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property depends on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is the equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, with combination and solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reaction process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 at normal conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers a decrease of only 1.8% in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental awareness (sonar). Responsiveness
Metallic elements that are more electrically charged than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon dioxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water supply is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland water is limnology and the distribution of the oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes in hydrology are centered on ecohydrology. The combined mass of water found above, below, and above the planet’s surface is called the hydrosphere. The earth's estimated water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in water, such as sea, ocean, lake, river, stream, channel, pond or mud. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is essential in many geologic systems. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and groundwater pressure affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. At the Earth’s surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport occurring at the earth’s surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms a wide variety of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves perpetually through each of these regions in a water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other waters into the air and evaporation from land plants and animals into the air. rain, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling on land or sea. miles from the land often reach the sea. Most of the water vapor mainly found in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as ocean flow, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and evaporation occurring through the land mass also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, consists of several forms: usually rain, snow, and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor comes into contact with a cooler surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth’s surface temperature starts to increase. Water compressed in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff is usually concentrated over wetlands that flow into rivers. Through erosion, water runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and sufficient ground for the establishment of population centres. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when a region realizes a deficit in its water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water sources
Wetlands are natural sources of water that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total global freshwater volume, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and living things. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers are composed of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A large fraction of the water supply of some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and as withdrawals exceed replenishment, stocks decline. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawal, causing groundwater depletion. Seawater and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature up to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the oceans varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
The tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and the Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of ocean and estuarine waters and produce oscillating currents known as tidal streams. The changing tide generated at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. A beach that is submerged in water at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean currents. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many different properties that are crucial for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow reproducibility. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which most of the body's solutes are soluble and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (by energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and fuel and information storage proteins). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce small molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy consumption or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes would not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate water hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed in air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and renew water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton donor), cannot be taken over by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is assumed to be neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Forms of aquatic life
The waters above the earth are full of life. The first life forms appeared in the water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton as a whole is the foundation of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to get oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, like lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface from time to time to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated water including respiratory tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life arises in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically thrived around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the supposed cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The first civilization of the Indus Valley (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and streams flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was refounded on the banks of the Tiber river in Italy. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access to water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, like Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is extremely scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is central to human development. Health and pollution
Water for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or purification, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but harmless to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by a variety of names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes referred to as safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually overseen by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm chlorine that has not yet reacted with bathing water contaminants). Bathing water can be kept at a satisfactory microbial level by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (typically sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce communities, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is generated worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrologic cycle, but pressures on access to it result from inherently unequal distribution in space and time, growing economic demands by agriculture and industry, and rising populations. Currently, nearly a billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to reduce by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, accounting for about one-third of the world’s population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of these extract more water each year than is recharged through their natural water cycles. This species not only affects fresh surface water bodies like rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The largest human water use is agricultural, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for about 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, treat, and deliver water and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures increasingly concern water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the notion of a water peak. As the population and economy continue to grow, the consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands rise for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, there are likely new water challenges. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Agency in Sri Lanka to determine whether the world has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It examined the current availability of agricultural water on a global scale and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of real water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or inadequate human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that the sustainability of today’s food production and environmental trends would lead to problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase production to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. Cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world’s water consumption, water is used in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Massive environmental damage has been caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton has been largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to the cube of a hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a reference standard of iron, a thousand times larger, was required, the kilogram. So the task of determining accurately the weight of one liter of water was commissioned. Despite the fact that the prescribed definition of a gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—the most reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the highest density temperature of water, then measured at 4 °C (39). °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple water point, defined as essentially 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavy isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body consists, on average, of 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends drinking 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. liters) of water daily for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact number depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or other beverages without drinking straight water. Medical literature favors low consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding increased requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this rate. People can drink far more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk for water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that increased water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) at mealtime, was associated with weight loss. Drinking enough fluid helps prevent constipation. The first recommendation to drink water in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Council of the U.S. National Research Council. it read: "The standard dose for a wide range of people is one milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this dose is found in prepared foods." The latest dietary guideline intake report by the U.S. National Research Council. generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that water contains in a given meal approximately 19% of the total water intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends, on average, 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a very large amount of fluid is lost during lactation. Also noted is that typically, about 20% of drinking water comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (caffeinated included). Water is removed from the body in many forms; by urine and faeces, by perspiration, and by exhalation of water vapor into the air. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People want water with fewer impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest source (by volume) of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical applications
Water is mostly used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and closely related compounds of water. In organic reactions, it is not frequently used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently combusts organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water may even be available naturally from a lake or sea. It is very effective in transporting heat by vaporizing and condensing water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as iron and copper are rapidly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and a refrigerant (used to exchange waste heat to the water body or to carry it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants is the largest use of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a medium for measuring neutrons. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However other methods are favored for stopping the reaction and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water so as to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it an ideal firefighting fluid. Water evaporation carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water in a fire involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on the surface of the water and the water tends to spread the flammable liquid. The use of water for fire fighting must also consider the risks of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined spaces, and of hydrogen explosion, when substances reacting with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon like coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose water water. The power of such an explosion was observed in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case was not from firefighting but from the water cooling system of the reactor itself. The vapor explosion occurred when the superheating of the core caused the water to flash into steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between the vapor and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard may arise. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is usually delivered in paper bags. If these are soaked in, they can ignite when their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing, and swimming. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of running water soothing, and fountains and other features of running water are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, enjoyment, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Intasteri ya meetse
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater (including sewage treatment) services to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water distribution networks, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water mains including old water mains. Space water generators are in development. Drinking water is usually collected from springs, extracted from artificial bores (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. So building more wells in enough places is a feasible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can supply enough flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require treatment for human consumption. This may include the removal of crumbs, dilutes, and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Bulk seawater desalination is the most expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. The supply of drinking water is made through municipal water systems, tank supplies or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to provide free water to the poor. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater sources. Water pollution can be the single largest misuse of water; to the extent that pollution limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other forms of pollution, this does not enter into a standard account of market costs, being conceived as externalities for which the market cannot account. Thus some people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they do not biodegrade. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are normally treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reduction of surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Ditirišo tša intasteri
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water containers or using water to wash and extract material, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical fueling, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectricity. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the motion of water. A dam is typically built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn the generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It is highly efficient, relatively safe, and environmentally benign. It is also used in mechanical cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes spilled sediments (chemical pollution) and spilled coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various treatment techniques both through water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses huge amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". The food system
Boiling, steaming, and steaming are popular cooking methods that often require submerging foods in water or in their gaseous state, steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles within the field of food science. Ingredients such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as atmospheric pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at low temperatures at low air pressure which occurs at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Ingredients in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. The work of water can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solvents in water reduce water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a very important factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange process. It can significantly affect the quality of the product, as well as play a role in sanitation. The hardness of water is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate that water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also explain that this is a global average and situational factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Injectable water is on the World Health Organization's list of essential Medicines. Distribution by nature
Universally
Most of the universal water is produced as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong external wind of gas and dust. When this flow of material eventually touches the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The treated water is immediately produced in a warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a massive cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies, too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the characteristics of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and of other stellar systems, most other planetary systems likely contain similar compounds. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

Solar Atmosphere: with detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Venus atmosphere: 0.002% Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the entire atmosphere, typically 1-4% above
Moon's atmosphere: in the following figure
Martian atmosphere: 0.03% . The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and of its moon Europa
Saturn’s atmosphere – in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subterranean ocean) . Uranus atmosphere – with a trace number below 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar environments: not limited to cool stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water is a liquid
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-km-thick ocean about 30–40 km beneath Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, probably mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest an underground liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice on:

 Mars: under regolith and at dipoles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in Moon cavities and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Lunar Mineral Map on board the Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft of the Indian Space Research Organization in September 2009. Ceres of the the same
Moons of Jupiter: Surface of Europa and also of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in planetary ring configuration and above and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Charon System
Stellar stars and related Kuiper belt objects and Oort cloud objects
And it also seems to exist on:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys of the same

Unusual features
Water and other volatiles probably account for most of the inner structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which molecules dissociate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and seriously still as superionic water in which oxygen crystallizable, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), conditions that allow three structures to exist simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The earth’s size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to trap the atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have or do not have an extremely thin atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (vegetation effect) that helps maintain a constant surface temperature when present in constant quantity. The level of water on the planet depends on ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet’s gravity. If the planet is large enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed on the exoplanets of Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Hydropolitics is politics affected by water resources and water. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource throughout the world and a key element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but about a billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world’s population will be exposed to water-based vulnerabilities. The report, issued in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there is enough water for everyone". but that access to it is hindered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid delivery efficiency, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by water sector donors as effectively as they have in education and health, which may leave many donors working on overlapping projects with recipient governments. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one reason for some types of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing what processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in attempting to apply ‘blueprints’ applicable in the developed world to developing world settings and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; an International Water Management Agency analysis of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also discovered that Cambodia’s draft water law was more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often tied to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO’s World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. Urban people (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been defined as existing, due to excessive consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with severe or significant water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased roughly 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the north midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of flooding between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million.Organizations concerned with water security include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Agency undertakes projects in order to use effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related treaties are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. By 2026, the United Nations has declared that humanity has entered an era of "Water collapse" because more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population live in water-insecure countries experience water shortages for at least one month a year, and droughts cost $307 billion a year. It called for policies that matched reality rather than past norms. In the culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in many religions. Faiths that involve ritual washing (bathing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or pouring) in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is practiced for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be offered in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (e.g., in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of people, places and things, or as a means of driving away evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy of
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four primordial elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be ylem, or the essence of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, proposed the idea that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, the monist, believed further that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The idea of ​​the four humors of the body associated water with phlegm, as cold and wet. The water archetype was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest virtue is like (that of) water. Water's excellence arises in its beneficence for all things, and in its taking up, without striving (to the contrary), the lowest place that all men dislike." Therefore (its path) is closer (to) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet for attacking things that are strong and solid nothing can precede it—because there is nothing (so practical) to change with it." Guanzi in chapter "Shui di" 水地 also explains about symbolism of water, declaring that "man is water" and attributing the natural qualities of the people of different regions of China to the character of local water sources Folklore
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm story ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical waters that are supposed to stave off aging. Art and commitment
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the "Ithaca" chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water fell". According to Richard E. Madtes, a hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they subside in the tranquil stillness of plague's 'fens, faded flower waters, stagnant pools the waning moon.'" The hymn is considered one of the most wonderful passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of magnifying to poetry the whole jumble of footling information collected in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What in water does Bloom, the water lover, the water lab, the water carrier return to the place, admire?Its universality: its democratic equality and consistency to its nature in claiming its status: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's prophecy: its unplumbed depth in the Sundam channel of the Pacific more than 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles visit in turn all points of its seaboard: the independence of its units: the fluctuations of sea levels: its hydrostatic quiescence at calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity at neap with spring tides: its subsidence after damage: its sterility in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: the grayness of its climate and commerce: its preponderance of 3 to 1 over the dry land of the world: its indisputable dominance extending in square leagues over the whole region below the subequatorial tropics of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of the basin its former: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble matter including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and descending prontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: its undisturbance in lakes and upland tarns: its gradation of colors in torrid and temperate zones: its motor effects in streams with continental lake and confluent marine rivers and their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south studies equatorial: its violence in ocean currents, waterspouts, artesian springs, eruptions, streams, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its great circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its mystery in springs, and hidden moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by a fountain through a hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, air saturation, dew cleansing: simplicity of its composition, two hydrogen-forming parts with one oxygen-forming part: its cooling mechanisms: its buoyancy in Dead Sea water: its continuity penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate reservoirs, leaks in shipboard: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as fog, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its power in hard hydrants: it variety of formations in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and waves estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its capacity derivable from harnessed waves or watercourses falling from level to level: its underwater animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, the population of the world: being so ubiquitous as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine cavities, plague fens, murky flowery waters, stagnant pools on the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at St. John's Cathedral. John the Divine in New York City, which supported the Cathedral’s year-long effort on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear in the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact of clean water on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of scams and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools’ Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story had a safety concern about the item. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Further and further some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See again
Details
References
Works cited
Reading on
External links

World Water Data Sheet
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 on the Wayback Machine
School of water sciences (USGS) . Department of World Bank strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Saved March 24, 2018 in the Wayback machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 via Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
The chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 via Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Water and Steam Properties Association Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary