Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. The chemical substance is transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless. It is a key component of Earth’s streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds which contribute significantly to its physical and chemical properties. Whether it is a non-energy or an organic micronutrient, it is vital to every known form of life. Due to its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, global abundance, and extreme polarity of its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because Earth’s temperature and pressure are close to the water triangle, water is present on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of water droplets and suspended ice, its solid state. When divided slightly, crystallized ice may fall in the form of snow. The gas state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth, with oceans and seas making up the majority (about 96.5%) of the water volume. Smaller portions of water appear as groundwater (1.7%), glaciers and ice caps in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (containing ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously in the cycle of evaporation, evaporation (evaporation), condensation, precipitation and runoff, often reaching the sea.Water plays an important role in the global economy.Approximately 70% of freshwater used by humans is used for agriculture was, and still is, providing 6.5% of the world’s protein Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals Much water, ice, and steam are used for industrial and domestic cooling and heating it is a fine thickener and is thus used extensively in industrial and cooking and bathing processes Water, ice and snow are also central in many other forms of recreation such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, form from suffixed root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also, via Indo-European root, Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Old Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), thence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and ujë Albaaniyaa wajjin wal qabata. Seenaa
On the Ground
Resources
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. It is a tasteless and odorless liquid at room temperature, and is almost colourless, with a slight grayish tinge. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as a "general solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "bulb of life": indeed, water as it occurs naturally almost always includes a variety of dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only known substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal earthly conditions. Regions of the
Along with oxygen, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; akkasumas marsaa dhangala’aa H2O ti. The other two general forms of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and precipitation (vapour to ice). Dandeettii (Density) ta’uu
Water is one of the few known substances that freezes and expands and becomes less dense when within a certain temperature range; it is the only known naturally occurring liquid that does so. Furthermore, while it is not unique in that respect, it is unusual in that its density decreases significantly as it freezes. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). At temperatures below that, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less liquid) until it reaches the freezing point, at which time its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it cools and ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). These expansions can cause significant impacts, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid it shows the usual tendency to agglomerate and become more dense as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom while ice forms on the surface and floats on the water table. This ice keeps the water underneath from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic life in the lakes would disappear during the winter. Moreover, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes the temperature around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Bishaan meeshaa daayaagneetii ta’eedha. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve a prominent reaction with a superconducting magnet. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils at 100 °C (212 °F) or vapor condenses. However, even below the boiling point, water can be converted to steam at its surface by evaporation (known as condensation throughout the liquid). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, snow is deposited on a cold surface, while snow is formed by the accumulation of aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze-drying process, a food is cooled and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clasius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display format {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\display format v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display format v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display format L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is reduced. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under the weight of sufficiently thick ice to form subaerial lakes. The Clasius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the boiling point increases with pressure because the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase. Water can remain in a liquid state in the deep ocean or underground at high temperatures. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in the Old Faithful geyser in Yellowstone National Park. Temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F) at hydrothermal wind sites. At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 metres. Cooking food at altitude takes longer than cooking food at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired effect. Conversely, using a pressure cooker can raise the boiling temperature during cooking. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Three and crucial factors
On the pressure/temperature cycle diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where the three phases can coexist. The triangle is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, three points were used to describe the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor cycle curve terminates at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical flow. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like fluids; its properties (which are quite different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, it can be freely mixed with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds, for suitable pressures and temperatures. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. It acts as a solvent in the Earth’s mantle during the formation, germination and deposition of minerals. Ice and water cycles
The typical form of ice on the earth’s surface is Ih ice, and the phases form crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may form in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, ice forms other crystalline structures. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally proven and many more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth bubble form, bubble XVIII, face-centered-cubic, superbubble phase, obtained when a drop of water raised the pressure shock wave of water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, the structure of solid oxygen atoms hydrogen atoms free created flowing in it. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of leachate are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two fluid states. Taste and aroma
While plain water is often described as tasteless and odorless, humans have special sensors that can sense the water in their mouths, and rats can certainly smell it. However, water from conventional sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have evolved a sense that allows them to evaluate drinking water to avoid water that is too salty or corrosive. Color and shape
Clear water appears blue due to the absorption of ambient light c. 600–800 nm. This color can easily be observed in a puddle of water set against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for this color are the O–H stretching vibrational overtones. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer’s law. This applies to swimming pools, for example, when the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color may also improve from pink to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, as the large ultrasonic intensity of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be employed. A path length of about 25 μm is required to observe the basic stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solutions in the vicinity of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm). The cuvette should also be about 3500 cm−1 transparent and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the most commonly used cuvette window materials for aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibration can be observed, for example, with a 1-cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. In practice, sunlight does not reach parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass species (1.4 to 1.6) is lower than. The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Along with the bent structure this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and light alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz of carbonated beverages, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other events critical for life (hydrophobic effects). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most iron oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in either the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is because the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulphide. They also describe its high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water effective at balancing Earth's climate, by storing and transporting heat between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to 492 kJ/mol for covalent O–H bonds). It is estimated that 90% of this is electrostatically related and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are due to surface water pressure and high capillary forces. Capillary action refers to water moving up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This trait relies on all vascular plants such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, relative to the resulting solutions of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with dissolution with less ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. This decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its pressure ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in a 4-km-deep ocean, where the pressure is 400 atm, water loses only 1.8% in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water, especially at low frequencies (approximately 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity (Reactivity).
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water to form hydroxide and release hydrogen. At high temperatures coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the Ground
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of groundwater distribution and movement is hydrogeology, of glacier glaciology, in-water limnology and marine distribution oceanography. Ecological processes are in the focus of ecohydrology along with hydrology. The collective mass of water on, below, and above a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as seas, oceans, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor forms. It is also found as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects the pattern of faulting. Water in the mantle is responsible for the formation of volcanoes on subduction zone leaves. At the Earth’s surface, water is essential to chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for the transport of large amounts of soil on Earth. Transported sediment deposits produce many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves constantly through each of these zones in a hydraulic cycle involving the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water to the atmosphere and emissions from land plants and animals to the atmosphere. rain, from water vapor condensed from the atmosphere and falling to the land or sea. surface streams often reaching the sea. Most of the water vapor in the ocean is returned to it, but the atmosphere carries water vapor flowing at the same rate over land to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and wind’s in the land mass also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at an annual rate of 119 Tt over the Earth, takes many forms: mainly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Rain is the tiny water droplets that collect when high density water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when surface temperatures begin to rise. Water in the atmosphere can also condense and refract sunlight to form rain. Sediment usually collects on water flowing into rivers. Through erosion, local flows create shapes of river valleys and deltas that provide rich soils and level ground for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually shallow, is covered with water which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, prolonged drought is the months or years in which an area becomes aware of the deficiency of its water supply. This occurs when an area consistently receives less than average rainfall due to geographic or geographic factors. Water resources
A water resource is a natural resource of water that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both a "stock" and a "liquid." Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Approximately 69 percent of the world’s total freshwater volume is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. Basin residence time is highly variable: some aquifers contain water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can change seasonally, decreasing in dry seasons and increasing in wet seasons. The bulk of the water supply for some areas consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable extraction of groundwater, leading to depletion of groundwater. Seawater and seawater
On average, seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important ways. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and, instead of reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing, increases with decreasing temperature towards the freezing point. The salinity of water in the Great Seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is indeed a salt lake.)
Tides are cycles of local sea level rise and fall caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the ocean. Tidal waves cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies, creating oscillating currents known as tidal streams. The changes in tides at specific locations are the result of changes in the positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. The shoreline trajectory exposed at submerged high tide and at low tide, in the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of tides. Their impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are crucial for the abundance of life. It fulfills this role by causing organic compounds to react in such a way as to eventually produce mass. Every known form of life depends on water. Water is a very important component both as a solvent in which many of the body’s solutes are dissolved and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through the energy of chemical reactions that require enzymes) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate small molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and fuel amino acids for energy use or other purposes). Without water, this particular metabolic process could not exist. Water is fundamental for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun’s energy to split water’s hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and oxygen is released. All living cells use such fuels to oxidize hydrogen and carbon, capturing solar energy and regenerating water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also an acid-base intermediate in neutral and enzymatic function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton donor), a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) can be neutralized to form water. Water is assumed to be the medium, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 optimally. Acids have pH values below 7 and bases have pH values of 7. Forms of aquatic organisms
The waters on the earth are full of life. The earliest forms of life in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants like kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals like dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to vent regularly to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications for survival in poorly oxygenated water including respiratory tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrates have evolved in aquatic habitats, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Impact on human civilization
Civilizations have historically flourished around major rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called civilizations, was located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The earliest Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed on the Indus River and its Himalayan tributaries. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber in Italy. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by waterways and consequent commercial expansion. Freshwater port islands like Singapore have thrived for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East where water is very scarce, access to safe drinking water was, and still is, a major factor in human progress. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or drinking water. Unpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called potable or nonpotable water by various names, sometimes called fresh water, or "safe for bathing." Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant and is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually governed by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine not yet mixed with sewage for bathing water stains). Water for washing can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce nations, which means each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. Annually, 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated through natural hydrological cycles, and pressures on its access result from naturally uneven distributions in space and time, growing agricultural and industrial economic demands, and increasing populations. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world lack access to clean and affordable water. The United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals in 2000 to halve by 2015 the worldwide lack of access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals for global access to clean and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation kills; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, accounting for approximately one-third of the world’s population, suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, 17 of which annually extract more water than can be recharged by their natural water cycles. This species not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use of
Agriculture
Human water use is predominantly for agriculture, including irrigation, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater extracted for use is used for irrigation, but the vast majority of "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for water collection, treatment and delivery and wastewater disposal. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures have led to increasing concerns over water issues, resulting in increased competition for permanent water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and economy continue to grow, the consumption of water-thirsty meat expands and new demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water challenges are likely to emerge. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Institute for Water Management in Sri Lanka to consider whether the world has enough water to feed its growing population. Currently, it has assessed the water used for agriculture globally and mapped the areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. An additional 1.6 billion people live in areas facing economic water scarcity, where insufficient water investment or human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet demand. The report highlighted that although it is possible to produce enough food in the future, today’s food production and continuing environmental trends will cause problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities need ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. Cotton, for example: it takes 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans. Cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, and this water is used in regions already prone to water scarcity. There has been significant environmental damage: for example, the diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers by the former Soviet Union to cotton production is a major cause of the disappearance of the Aral Sea. According to a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight equal to the weight of one hundredth of a cubic meter of pure water, and at the temperature of melted ice." For practical purposes, however, the reference standard of iron, a thousand times greater than the kilogram, was required. A task was therefore commissioned to accurately determine the weight of a liter of water. Although the definition for the gram declaration specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly repeatable temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the higher liquid temperature of water, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale is based on the three-water-point SI system, defined to be exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 will be based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale similar to the Celsius temperature scale increments, originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are small quantities of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is much smaller, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes may have fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Central Seawater specification. For the drink
The average human body consists of 50–60% water, depending on age, sex and body size although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine. recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested by other foods or drinks besides drinking straight water. Medical literature favors low consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average male, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress like exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink far more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no basis in fact in science. Studies have shown that increased water intake, especially up to 500 ml (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) at mealtimes, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The first recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council stated: "The normal standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this quantity is found in processed foods." The latest food security intake report from the U.S. National Research Council. generally recommended, based on mean total water intake from US study data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) for women, noting approximately 19% of total water intake in this study. Pregnant and breastfeeding women especially need extra fluids to stay hydrated. According to the American Institute of Medicine, the average consumption is 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should receive an intake of about 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women 3 liters (12 cups), because particularly large amounts of fluid are lost during lactation. It was also noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the rest coming from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water leaves the body in multiple forms; through urine and faeces, through sweating, and by exhalation of water vapor. With physical fatigue and exposure to heat, water loss increases, and daily fluid needs may increase as well. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solvents are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide essential electrolytes. The only large (quantitatively) potable freshwater resource is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing up
Transportation
Chemical applications
Water is widely used as a solvent or reagent in chemical reactions and is most commonly used as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent and dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic synthesis it is not often used as a reaction solvent, because it is not well soluble and is amphoteric (acidic and base) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these qualities are sometimes desirable. Also, the rate of Diels-Alder reaction with water was observed. Supercritical water has been a topic of research in recent times. Oxygenated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchanger
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, for cooling and heating. Cooling water can be naturally obtained from a lake or even the ocean. Transporting the heat of vaporization and condensation of water is particularly effective because it has a large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries like iron and copper are rapidly oxidized by water and untreated steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as a working fluid (used in a boiler, sealed between a steam turbine and a condenser), and a coolant (used to convert waste heat into a body of water or deliver it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are a major use of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. Most nuclear reactors are water cooled and neutralized. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows nuclear reactions. However, other methods are favored to stop a reaction, preferably keeping the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Reflections of the fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively volatile, making it an excellent firefighting fluid. Water vapor avoids the heat of the fire. Using water on fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because large amounts of organic material float on the water and the water tends to expand the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the risk of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite. Such explosive force was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved came not from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. The steam explosion occurred when overheating caused the water core to flare into steam. Hydrogen explosions may be due to reactions between steam and hot zirconium. Some oxides of iron, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, react with water to produce so much heat that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced ingredient that is usually transported in paper bags. If these are soaked inside, their contents can react with water and burn. Have fun
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy fun. Many are soothed by the sound and appearance of running water, and fountains and other tidal structures are popular decorations. Some put fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and companionship. Humans also use water for winter sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which requires water at low temperatures like ice or crystallized into snow. The water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater harvesting ditches, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes such as old waterways. Space water generators are under development. Drinking water is usually collected at springs, drawn from artificial wells (holes) in the ground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in enough places is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming aquifers can supply enough flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. They may need to treat water for human consumption. This may include the removal of insoluble substances, soluble substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include filtering sand by removing only insoluble materials, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation does all three functions. Advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis are available. Large quantities of seawater desalination is an inexpensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Distribution of drinking water takes place through municipal water systems, tank delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no charge. Reducing the use of potable (potable) water for human consumption only is another option. In some cities like Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution may be the single greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of the water, it is a waste of the resource regardless of the benefits to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, this does not enter standard accounts of market costs, being intended as an externality for which markets cannot account. Thus, while others pay the price of water pollution, the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can adversely affect aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated land runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment strategies. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on the use of a combination of water-soluble chemicals, the suspension of solids in aqueous solutions or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process materials. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing and cooling in power plants use large amounts of water, require a separate source of water, and often result in significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hydroelectricity is the power from water. Hydroelectric power is derived from water driving a hydro turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. It is delivered by the kinetic energy of water. Typically a dam is built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing through the lake is forced by turbines turning generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and room jet water. High-pressure water guns are used for precision cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machinery cooling to prevent overheating, or saw blades from overheating. Besides its use as a chemical solvent, water is also used in many industrial processes and machines such as steam turbines and heat exchangers. Untreated water is polluted by discharge from industrial use. Pollution includes discharged solvents (chemical pollutants) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollutants). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the spread of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Preparing food
Boiling, steaming, and roasting are common cooking techniques that usually require immersing food in water or in a gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays several critical roles in the field of food science. Solvents such as salts and sugars in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as by atmospheric pressure, which in turn affects altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower atmospheric pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solvents in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in foods. The activity of water can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solvents in water lower water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or purified using chemical ion exchange systems. It can significantly affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in environmental quality. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also reveal that this is a global average and that the conditions determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical uses
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization’s list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the university
Much of the universe's water is produced as a by-product of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by strong outward winds of gas and dust. When the liquid material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock wave compresses and heats the gas. Observed water forms quickly in this hot liquid gas. The 22 July 2011 report described a massive cloud of water vapor that is "more than 140 trillion times the water of all of Earth's oceans combined" near a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "this finding suggests that water has permeated almost its entire existence in the universe". Water has been found in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water is probably also abundant in other galaxies, as its hydrogen and oxygen components are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and of other stellar systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar features. Water vapor
Water as vapor is present in:

The Solar System: the amount of trace detectability
Mercury atmosphere: 3.4%, and lots of water in the Mercury exosphere
Venus atmosphere: 0.002% . Terrestrial atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the entire atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
The Moon Community: to a lesser extent
Martian community: 0.03% . Climate of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and of her moon Europe
The atmosphere of Saturn – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subterranean ocean) . The atmosphere of Uranus – with a minimum of less than 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary communities: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar communities: not limited to the coolest stars and even detected in the hottest giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Peristellar discs: those of more than half of T Tauri stars including AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. The water is flowing
Rainwater is endemic to the earth, covering 71% of its land area. Liquid water is occasionally present in small quantities on Mars as well. Scientists believe liquid water is present in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean approximately 30–40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has features of its surface which suggest it is an ocean of subsurface liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer of high-pressure ice sandwiched between rocks. Ice water
Available on water as ice:

 Mars: under regolith and on pillars. Earth–Moon system: mostly as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules on the Indian Space Research Organization’s Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in November 2009. known as Ceres
The Moons of Jupiter: The Faces of Europe and also of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
Also definitely in attendance:

Pillars of Mercury
It is known as Tethys

Foreign forms
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune and water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which molecules break down into nutrients of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superwater in which oxygen crystallizes, but ions hydrogen freely circulating in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary viability
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is crucial for life as we know it to exist on Earth. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), it would be much less likely that conditions would allow all three forms to be present simultaneously. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including moisture. Small planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other atmospheric gases in the atmosphere provide a thermal buffer (greenhouse effect) which, when present in normal quantities, helps maintain a relatively stable Earth temperature. The state of water on a planet depends on the environmental pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the tremendous pressure exerted by gravity, as was the case with the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is a politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource throughout the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and biodiversity damage. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers predict that by 2025 more than half of the world’s population will face water-based exposures. A September 2009 report indicated that by 2030, water demand will exceed supply by 50% in some developing regions of the world. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have had access to safe water sources.In developing countries, the share of people with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report "There is enough water for everyone," he said. but that access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Moreover, global initiatives to improve aid delivery efficiency, such as the Paris Aid Effectiveness Declaration, are not effectively adopted by donors in the water sector such as education and health, leaving multiple donors with overlapping projects and recipient governments powerless to maneuver. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cite poor management as one reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions relating to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing what processes work best in specific physical and socioeconomic conditions. The mistake has sometimes been made in trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to locations and situations in the developing world. The Mekong River is one example; a review by the International Institute for Water Management of the policies of six countries dependent on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also noted that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that one child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to inadequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO’s Global Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26%) lack access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. Urban dwellers (2.4 billion) will experience water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been defined as endemic, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet water consumption has increased by around 1% per year over the past 40 years, and is expected to grow at a similar rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding has quadrupled in the tropics and increased 2.5-fold in the northern midlatitudes. The cost of the floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management works on projects aimed at using water effectively to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention on the Conservation of Deserts (UNCCD), the International Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22nd March and World Oceans Day takes place on 8th June. He declared that 2026 Humanity has entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because the Great Lakes have dropped by more than 50% since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in landlocked countries costs $307 billion. He called for a policy that is in line with reality, not transgressive laws. In the culture
Religion
Water is considered purifying in many religions. Religions that incorporate ritual bathing (wudu) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism and Wicca. Immersing someone in water (or aspersion or affusion) is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, there are ritual washings with holy water for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers are usually performed after washing certain parts of the body using pure water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to purify a person or an area (e.g., in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of people, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is venerated as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles regarded water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air), and as the ylem, or fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, who portrayed Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, proposed that the earth, which is more dense than water, emerged from water. Thales, the monist, believed more that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is icosahedron – it floats easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four physical humors associated water and phlegm, as cold and wet. The classical element of water was one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a metaphor. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest virtue is like (that of) water. The superiority of water is manifested in its benefiting everything, and, without striving (to the contrary), occupying the lowest places not all men like." Hence (his way) is close (to) the Tao" and "Nothing in this world is softer and weaker than water, yet nothing can give priority to attacking hard and strong things-because nothing can be changed (so effectively)." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter further elaborates on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "water man" attributes the natural qualities of the various Chinese local populations to the characteristics of the local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm ("Water of Life") and Russian fairy tales dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical water that is supposed to combat aging. Art and activism
In Irish author James Joyce's great modern novel Ulysses (1922), the "Ithaca" chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song." According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not just a "monotonous string of facts," but rather, the phrases, like their title, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they end in a still silence 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" among the most remarkable, and accomplishes, according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, "the unimaginable feat of drawing into poetry all the pedestrian information stored in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the song represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The full psalm is quoted below. What in water did Bloom, a water lover, a drainer, a water carrier back to the frontier, appreciate?Its universality: its constantness in its nature in seeking democratic equality and its own status: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's tiles: its and surface particles in turn visited all its coastal points: its unit independence: sea state changes: its hydrostatic stillness in stillness: its turgidity in hydrokinetic nep and spring tides: its subsidence after dissolution: its sterility in circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: world: its undisputed dominance over every subequatorial tropic area below Capricorn extended by square leagues: multisecular stability its primal waters: its luteofulvous beds: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of very precious metals: its gradual wash down peninsulas and promontories: deposits its alluvial: its weight and mass and density: its non-disturbance in lagoons and highland tarns: its colors in torrid and temperate and frigid regions: its vehicle classification continental lakecontained streams and oceanflowing rivers with their confluent tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial course: its violence earthquakes, waterfalls, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secrets in springs, and moisture hidden, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric devices and by the example of the well at the Ashtown gate wall, full air, dew distillation: simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: gullies, inadequate dams, leaks on shipboard: its qualities for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: as paradigm and paragon of its lack of error: as steam, fog, clouds, rain, snow, ice, dew: its strength in rigid hydrants: its various forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of sea: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in hydraulic work millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable can, floating harbors and graving: its ability to harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: its undersea animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) number, if not literally, world inhabitants: its ubiquity as 90% of the human body: faded, steady pool in waning moon. Illustrator and activist Fredericka Foster hosted The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring the Cathedral’s year-long initiative on our dependence on water. It is the largest exhibition yet seen at the Cathedral and features more than forty artists including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornick, Kiki Smith, Pat Easter, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collection of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. WaterAid charity The charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact clean water has on people’s lives. Parody dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of hoaxes and satire mocking scientific literacy. It all began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story involved safety concerns about the substance. The music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a catchphrase or an adlib. Rappers who did this included BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have made songs dedicated entirely to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 hit "Florida Water." See also
Note that
References
Works cited
Further reading
External prisoners

World Water Data Page
FAO General Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS) . Portal to Strategy, operations and related publications of the World Bank on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the website
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the wonders of the universe", Comments, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
World Water and Steam Resources Association Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary