Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, is subject to strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds, which largely influence its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known life forms, even though it does not provide dietary energy and is not an organic micronutrient. Due to its presence in all organisms, chemical stability, worldwide abundance, and strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure at the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It creates precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are composed of suspended, solid water and ice droplets. When crushed finely, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is water vapor or steam. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, and most of the water is seas and oceans (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur in the form of groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air in the form of steam, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through a cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fishing has been and continues to be a major source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas and industrial products) takes place by ship on seas, rivers, lakes and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide range of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and laundry. Water, ice and snow also play a key role in many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, recreational sailing, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, with the root suffix *wed- ("water"; "wet"). Also related through an Indo-European root to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English "hydro-"), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a tint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide. It is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it dissolves non-polar substances poorly. This makes it a "solvent of life": in fact, water found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and obtaining chemically pure water requires special steps. Water is the only common substance that exists in solid, liquid and gaseous forms under normal Earth conditions. States
Water, next to oxidate, is one of the two official names of the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools over certain temperature ranges; it is the only naturally occurring substance known to do this in liquid form. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes much less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this respect. At a pressure of 1 atm it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 pounds/cubic foot) at a temperature of 3.98°C (39.16°F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0°C (32°F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 pounds/cubic foot). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and turns to ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cubic foot). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, causing pipes to burst and rocks to crack. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of shrinking and increasing density as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms that inhabit lakes would die out in winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat across the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, in the case of superconducting magnets it can achieve noticeable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into steam on its surface due to evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost forms on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by settling on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure, thanks to which the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature under pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT))
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L))}
  
 i 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S))}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f))}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. For most substances, the volume increases as it melts, so the melting point increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting point decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under enough ice, resulting in the formation of subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but in the liquid/gas transition the gas phase is much less dense than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases as the pressure increases. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the depths of the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at an altitude of 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to shorten cooking times by raising the boiling point. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
The pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) contains curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at one point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point has a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the tipping point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded to the density of gas and liquid; its properties (which differ significantly from those of surrounding water) are density sensitive. For example, at appropriate pressures and temperatures, it can be freely mixed with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another one with cubic crystalline symmetry, Ic ice, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, ice forms different crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed, with several more predicted theoretically. The 18th form of ice, Ice XVIII, a cubic superionic ice phase centered around a wall, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When placed between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. Details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs can smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the suitability of water for drinking, to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water has a distinct blue color due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool, where the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used for aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower tones of water means that short path length glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the basic absorption spectrum when stretching water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3500 cm-1 (2.85 µm), a path length of about 25 µm is needed. Furthermore, the cuvette must be transparent at approximately 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one of the materials commonly used in the windows of cuvettes with aqueous solutions. Active fundamental Raman vibrations can be observed, for example, using a measuring cell with a diameter of 1 cm. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water at depths of up to hundreds of meters because sunlight reaches them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than the refractive index of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerin (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarization
In a water molecule, hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with an oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are located near the two corners of the tetrahedron, the center of which is oxygen. In the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter of which gives effervescence to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances found in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force, which attracts molecules together in most liquids. For this reason, the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (0.561 to 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds have a mass of about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of this can be attributed to electrostatics and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, benefit from this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has low electrical conductivity, which increases when a small amount of ionic material, such as table salt, is dissolved. Liquid water can be separated into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat generated in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
It can be assumed that liquid water is incompressible for most applications: its compressibility under normal conditions ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10-10 Pa-1. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is approximately 10–3 Pa s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 to 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz). This is a property used by cetaceans and humans to communicate and detect their surroundings (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with water vapor to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The science that deals with the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of the oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below, and above a planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water occurs in bodies of water such as the ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water also occurs in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also occurs as groundwater in aquifers. Water plays an important role in many geological processes. Groundwater occurs in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water plays an important role in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for transporting much of the sediment that takes place on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments creates many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geological record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically called the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water continually flows through each of these areas in a water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration of land plants and animals into the air. atmospheric precipitation, resulting from the condensation of water vapor from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as flowing into the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Atmospheric precipitation on land, amounting to 119 Tt per year, takes several forms: most often rain, snow and hail, with some fog and dew. Dew is small drops of water that condense when high-density water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight, creating a rainbow. Runoff water often accumulates over catchments that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and level ground for establishing population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, becomes covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or there is a storm surge. Drought, on the other hand, is a prolonged period of months or years in which water is scarce in a region. This happens when rainfall consistently falls below average in a region, either due to topography or latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water exists as both “resources” and “flows.” Water can be stored in the form of lakes, steam, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world's total freshwater volume, it is estimated that approximately 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and fauna and flora. The length of time water is stored is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of lakes can vary seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. Much of the water supply in some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in supplies, and as withdrawals exceed replenishment levels, supplies decline. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater abstraction, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Sea water contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride and smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in several important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature drops to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. Water salinity in the main seas ranges from approximately 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its very high salinity levels of 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides change the depth of bodies of water in seas and estuaries and produce oscillating currents called tidal jets. The changing tide that develops at a given location is the result of the changing position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of sea coast that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Impact on life
Biologically, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the spread of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows for replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is essential both as a solvent in which many substances dissolved in the body dissolve, and as an important element of many metabolic processes occurring in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g. starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that can be used in fuels for energy or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is the basis of both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate the hydrogen contained in water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from the air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and thus reform water and CO2 (cellular respiration). Water is also crucial for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, or proton) donor, can be neutralized with a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), to form water. Water is considered neutral and its pH (the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration) is 7 in an ideal state. Acids have a pH value of less than 7, while bases have a pH value of greater than 7. Forms of aquatic life
The Earth's surface waters are full of life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some animal species, e.g. amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of their lives on land. Plants such as seaweed and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in various ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must come to the surface periodically to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates display a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including respiratory tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in aquatic environments, most of them have little or no specialization for water respiration. Impact on human civilization
Civilization historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the major rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 B.C. - c. 1300 B.C.) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also built on the banks of the Italian Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to the ready availability of water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water has been and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable through filtration, distillation, or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is undrinkable but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water and is sometimes called safe or "bathing safe" water. Chlorine is a substance that irritates skin and mucous membranes and is used to make water safe for bathing and drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of chlorine, which has not yet reacted with contaminants, for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most often sewage, also known as municipal sewage) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-stressed countries, which means each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water annually. Each year, 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cubic feet) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated in the natural hydrological cycle, but pressure on access results from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the increasing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and a growing population. Currently, almost one billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water with the goal of halving the number of people in the world without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, which is why in 2015 the UN committed to achieving the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and sanitation are deadly; approximately five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million children from dying from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still ends up untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, accounting for about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of them extract more water each year than is recharged by natural water cycles. This load not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human applications
Agriculture
Water is used primarily in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80–90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater abstracted for use is used for irrigation, but the vast majority of "spent" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built advanced water systems to collect, purify and deliver water and dispose of wastewater. However, increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing water concerns, leading to increasing competition for permanent water supplies, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and economy continue to grow, consumption of water-intensive meats increases, and new demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water-related challenges are likely. In 2007, the International Water Management Institute of Sri Lanka conducted an agricultural water management assessment to see whether the world had enough water to feed a growing population. The current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale was assessed and locations affected by water scarcity were identified. It has been found that one fifth of the world's population, over 1.2 billion, lives in areas where there is physical water scarcity, that is, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas affected by economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human resources prevents governments from meeting water demands. The report indicated that it will be possible to produce the food we need in the future, but continuing today's trends in food production and environmental protection will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to strive to increase productivity to meet growing food demand, while industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton – the equivalent of a pair of jeans – requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, this water is used in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage was done: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, France defined the gram as equal to "the absolute mass of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter on a side and at the melting point of ice." However, for practical reasons, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, was required - a kilogram. Therefore, work was commissioned to precisely determine the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the established definition of a gram was water at 0 °C (32 °F) - a highly repeatable temperature - scientists decided to redefine the standard and conduct measurements at the temperature with the highest density of water, which was then measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The SI Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based instead on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is composed primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) also occur. The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes usually contains fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains on average 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although in individual people it can range from 45% to 75%. The United States National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of them are consumed through food or beverages other than drinking plain water. The medical literature advocates a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements caused by fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. When exercising, people may drink much more water than necessary, putting themselves at risk of water intoxication (overhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" does not seem to have any real scientific basis. Studies have shown that additional water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with a meal, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original water intake recommendation issued in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the United States National Research Council was: "The usual standard for various people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The most recent Water Intake Reference Report from the United States National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including from food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 US gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 US gal; 0.71 US gal) of water overall for women, with water from food providing approximately 19% of total intake water in the test. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 US gal; 0.63 US gal), and breastfeeding women should receive 3 liters (12 cups), because an especially large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It's also important to note that typically about 20% of your water intake comes from food and the rest from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweating and exhaling water vapor with the breath. In case of physical exercise and exposure to heat, water loss increases, as does the daily fluid requirement. People need water with few pollutants. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for improving taste and providing needed electrolytes. The largest (in terms of volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transport
Chemical applications
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant, and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent because it dissolves reactants poorly and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic in nature. Nevertheless, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction by water was also observed. Supercritical water has recently become a topic of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat transfer, due to their availability and high heat capacity for both cooling and heating. Cool water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. Heat transport through evaporation and condensation of water is particularly effective due to the high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries, such as steel and copper, oxidize more quickly when exposed to untreated water and steam. Almost all thermal power plants use water (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and a coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a water reservoir or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower) as the working fluid. In the United States, the largest water users are cooling power plants. In nuclear energy, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure because removing water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping the reaction are preferred and it is advantageous to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire protection considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of water removes heat from the flame. Extinguishing oils and organic solvents with water is dangerous because many organic substances float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. When using water to extinguish fires, the risk of steam explosions, which can occur when fighting very hot fires in enclosed spaces, and hydrogen explosions when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coking graphite, decompose water to produce water gas must also be taken into account. The power of such explosions could be seen during the Chernobyl disaster, although the water used in this case did not come from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. The steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion could occur as a result of the reaction of water vapor with hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, react with water to produce so much heat that a fire hazard may occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a substance that is mass-produced and often transported in paper bags. If they become saturated, they may catch fire as their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of them include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. Additionally, some sports such as ice hockey and skating are played on ice. Lake shores, beaches and water parks are popular places for rest and recreation. Many people find the sound and appearance of flowing water to be calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are a popular decoration. Some people keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. People also use the water for winter sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, and snowboarding, which require low water temperatures in the form of ice or crystallized snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater disposal (including wastewater treatment) services to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, cisterns for collecting rainwater, water networks and water treatment devices, water tanks, water towers, waterworks, including old aqueducts. Work on atmospheric water generators is ongoing. Drinking water is often taken from springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Therefore, building more wells in the right places is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be purified for human consumption. This may include removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microorganisms. Popular methods include sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microorganisms. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution for dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water networks, delivered by tanker trucks or as bottled water. Governments of many countries implement programs for free water distribution to those in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using drinking water only for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to save freshwater resources. Polluting water may be the single largest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant reduces other uses of water, it becomes a waste of a resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it is not included in standard market costing because it is seen as externalities that the market cannot account for. In this way, other people pay the price for water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and may have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial sewage is usually treated in sewage treatment plants. Reducing polluted surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous suspensions, or using water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate energy. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydroelectric power plants. Hydropower comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a cheap, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually, a dam is built on the river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that drive generators. Pressurized water is used in blast cleaning equipment and jet cutters. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used to cool machines to prevent saw blades from overheating or overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses constitutes pollution. Pollutants include released solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industries require clean water for many applications and use a variety of treatment techniques to both supply and discharge water. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, consumes large amounts of water, so the expansion of artificial intelligence could "threaten global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are popular cooking methods that often involve immersing food in water or its gaseous state, i.e. steam. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many key roles in food science. Dissolved substances, such as salts and sugars, found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are influenced by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is influenced by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Substances dissolved in water also influence water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Substances dissolved in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacteria stop growing at low levels of water activity. The development of microorganisms affects not only food safety, but also its preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. This can significantly impact product quality and also play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate contained in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (USA). According to a report published in 2010 by the Water Footprint organization, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000. liters of water; however, the authors also explain that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used to produce beef. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually hits the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water quickly forms in this warm, dense gas. The July 22, 2011 report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to scientists, "the discovery shows that the universe has been dominated by water for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems likely have similar components. Water vapor
Water occurs in the form of steam in:

Solar atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Venus atmosphere: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Ceres' atmosphere
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and the moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere – located in deeper layers
Atmospheres of exoplanets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: These are not limited to cooler stars and are even detected in giant, hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water occasionally occurs on Mars in small amounts. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on Saturn's moons Enceladus in the form of a 10-km-thick ocean located about 30-40 km beneath Enceladus' south pole, and on Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest there is an ocean of liquid water beneath the surface. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water occurs in the form of ice on:

 Mars: beneath the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly in the form of ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks. In September 2009, NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa, as well as Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related objects from the Kuiper Belt and Oort Clouds
It is probably also present on:

Mercury's poles
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles likely make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and water in the deeper layers may be as ionic water, in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, or even deeper as superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water on Earth, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, is essential for life as we know it. Earth is located in the inhabited zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the likelihood of conditions for the simultaneous presence of three forms would be much lower. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to maintain its atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps keep surface temperatures relatively constant when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which depends on the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, water can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, Politics and Crisis
Water policy is policy that is influenced by water and its resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element of many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over recent decades in almost every part of the world, but approximately one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation facilities. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will be at risk from water-related hazards. A report published in November 2009 shows that by 2030 in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water sources. It is estimated that the percentage of the population in developing countries with access to safe water has increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report concluded that "there is enough water for all" but access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Additionally, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been undertaken as effectively by donors in the water sector as in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as one of the causes of some forms of water scarcity. Water resources management is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is all about knowing what processes work best in a specific physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply "blueprints" that work in developed countries to the locations and contexts of the developing world. One example is the Mekong River; an International Water Institute policy review conducted in six countries that depend on the Mekong River as a water source found that accurate and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely conducted. They also found that Cambodia's draft water bill was much more complex than necessary. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from water-related diseases, which are easily preventable and often result from a lack of proper sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report found that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. By 2050, 2.4 billion people living in urban areas will face water scarcity. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, caused by overconsumption and pollution. The report found that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water scarcity. However, over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have quadrupled, while floods in northern mid-latitudes have increased 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Water conservation organizations include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. The conventions relating to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered an era of "water bankruptcy" as over 50% of large lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without access to water, 4 billion people experience water scarcity for at least one month of the year, and droughts cost $307 billion per year. He called for policies that reflect reality, not past norms. In culture
Religion
In most religions, water is considered a cleansing agent. Faiths that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism and Wicca. The immersion (or lameness or pouring) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikveh), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can in most cases be performed after washing specific parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is unavailable (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or area (e.g. in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for baptism, blessing people, places and objects, or as a deterrent to evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles viewed water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and considered it to be the ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the Earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, continued to believe that everything was created from water. Plato believed that water had the shape of an icosahedron - it flowed easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four body humors associated water with phlegm as cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems adopt water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest perfection is like water. The perfection of water is manifested in the fact that it benefits all things and occupies without striving (on the contrary) a low place which all people dislike. Hence (its way) is close to (the way of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet in the case of attacking things that are firm and strong, nothing can surpass it – because there is nothing (effective) by which it can be changed.” different regions of China to the nature of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters supposedly anti-aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel "Ulysses" (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism consisting of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "hymn of the water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the anthem is not merely a "monotonous string of facts," rather its phrases, like their theme, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and burst, until they settle into the tranquil stillness of the final "blighted bogs, faded flower waters, stagnant pools under the waning moon." The hymn is considered one of the most extraordinary fragments of Ithaca and according to the literary critic. Hugh Kenner achieves "the incredible feat of elevating the mess of information stored in school textbooks to the level of poetry." The literary theme of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life", and the anthem is the culmination of the novel's theme. Below is the hymn quoted in full. What did Bloom, the water lover, the water drawer, the water bearer returning to the heights, admire about the water? Its universality: democratic equality and constancy before nature in search of its own level: its immensity in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unfathomable depth in the Sundam Trench in the Pacific exceeding 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles visiting successively all points of its coast: the independence of its units: the variability of sea states: its hydrostatic calm in times of calm: its hydrokinetic turgor during high tides and spring tides: subsidence after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar ice caps of the Arctic and Antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3 to 1 advantage over the dry land of the globe: its undisputed hegemony extending in square miles to the entire region below the subequatorial tropic Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primary basin: its luteofulvic deposit: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most valuable metals: slow erosion of peninsulas and sloping headlands: alluvial deposits: its weight, volume and density: its immovability in lagoons and mountain ponds: color gradation in hot, temperate and icy climates: zones: its circular branches in continental lakes, containing streams and confluent ocean rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: current gulf, northern and southern equatorial courses: intensity of seaquakes, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, whirlpools, swells, overflows, ground wells, watersheds, partings of waters, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, whirlpools, floods, downpours, cloud storms: vast horizontal curve surrounding the earth: mystery in the springs and hidden moisture, revealed by instruments rhabdomantic or hygrometric, an example of which is the well at the opening in the wall at the Ashtown Gate, air saturation, distillation of dew: simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its healing properties: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its constant penetration in canals, ravines, unsuitable dams, leaks in ships: its cleansing, thirst-quenching and fire-quenching, nourishing properties vegetation: its infallibility as a paradigm and pattern: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in stiff hydrants: variety of forms in lakes and bays and Bays and inlets, bowels, lagoons, atolls and archipelagos, straits, fjords, minches and estuaries and arms of the sea: its persistence in glaciers, icebergs, floes ice: its docility in the operation of hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleachers, tanneries, mills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable docks, floating and causeways: their potential arises from tamed tides or watercourses descending from level to level: undersea fauna and flora (anaacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, inhabitants of the globe: omnipresence, as it constitutes 90% of the human body: harmful discharges in lake swamps, pathogenic peat bogs, faded flower waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at St. Peter's Cathedral. John of God in New York, which marked the beginning of the cathedral's year-long initiative to address our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members are Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of the recognition of access to water and sanitation as a human right by the United Nations, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. A parody of dihydrogen oxide
“Dihydrogen monoxide” is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name was used in a series of jokes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was about concerns about the substance's safety. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of saying or proverb. Rappers who have achieved this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Taking things even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World water data page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water Sciences School (USGS)
Portal of World Bank strategies, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water in the network
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Water and Steam Properties Association Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary