Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds, which contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, although it does not provide dietary energy nor is it an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity in relation to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the hydrological cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. Approximately 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in bodies of salt and fresh water has been, and continues to be, an important source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by boats across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also fundamental to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, scuba diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-ou, suffixed form of the root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also cognate, through the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless, odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water found in nature almost always includes several dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or vapor. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does this while it is liquid. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this regard. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becoming less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98°C (39.16°F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and turns into ice, water expands about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and breaking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks and ice forms on the surface, floating in liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms residing in lakes would perish during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat throughout the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a remarkable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0°C (32°F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100°C (212°F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn to vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface freezes. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      me
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              me
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            me
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          me
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display style L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, its melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures at the bottom of the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. At hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100°C (212°F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. On the other hand, a pressure cooker can be used to decrease cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
In a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, Ic ice, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, ice forms other crystalline structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and odor
Pure water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are able to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) generally contains many dissolved substances that can give it different flavors and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to light absorption in region c. 600–800nm. The color can be easily seen in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the tones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, as the greater intensity of the lower tones of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be employed. To observe the fundamental stretch absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3500 cm-1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Furthermore, the cuvette must be transparent at around 3,500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in waters up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are close to two vertices of an oxygen-centered tetrahedron. In the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example, methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the curved structure, this gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. Furthermore, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a liquid or solid water molecule can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force, which attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2,257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this total, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is used by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material, such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it – a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility varies from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers a volume decrease of only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that is exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, mainly alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water across the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of the oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found under and on a planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as the ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks and the pressure of this groundwater affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. Deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which constitute the geological record of Earth's history. water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, underground water and plants. Water perpetually moves through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the land or ocean. runoff from land generally reaching the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring over land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is tiny water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew generally forms in the morning, when the temperature is cooler, just before sunrise and when the Earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Water condensed in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Water runoff generally accumulates in watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich, flat soil for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water, which occurs when a river overflows or a storm occurs. On the other hand, drought is a prolonged period of months or years in which a region experiences a deficiency in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below-average precipitation, either due to its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs both as “stocks” and “flows”. Water can be stored in the form of lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, as well as ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69% is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30% is in groundwater; and the remaining 1% in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water remains stored is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A substantial fraction of some regions' water supply consists of water drawn from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, reserves decline. By some estimates, around 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from those of freshwater in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. Water salinity in the major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels, caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine bodies of water and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The tidal change produced in a given location is the result of changes in the position of the Moon and Sun in relation to the Earth, together with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of coast that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through enzymatic chemical reactions that require energy) to develop larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds and generate smaller molecules (e.g. glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate the hydrogen in water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, i.e., a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor, such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7, while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are full of life. The first life forms appeared in the water; almost all fish live exclusively in the water and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as algae and algae grow in the water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the oceanic food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for water breathing. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and large bodies of water; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber River. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success, in part, to their easy accessibility by water and the consequent expansion of commerce. Islands with safe water ports, like Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation, or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean water. Water that is not safe for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by many names other than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe or "bathing-safe" water. Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and generally monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine with impurities for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people residing in water-scarce countries, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cubic feet) of municipal wastewater are produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it result from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water, to halve by 2015 the proportion of people around the world without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe, affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; around five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea every year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. Around 50 countries, with around a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of them extract more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The stress not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most substantial human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which represents 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water “consumed” (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and deliver water, as well as to remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are raising concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries emerge, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Institute of Water Management in Sri Lanka to see whether the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It concluded that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, lives in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas facing economic water shortages, where a lack of water investment or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report concluded that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that the continuation of current food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton – equivalent to a pair of jeans – requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage was caused: for example, the diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers by the former Soviet Union for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as being equal to “the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and the temperature of the melting of ice.” For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive than the kilogram, was needed. Therefore, work was commissioned to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Although the decreed definition of the gram specifies water at 0°C (32°F) - a highly reproducible temperature - scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of water's highest density, which was measured at the time as 4°C (39°F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of the water. The water in rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, sex and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gallons) for women. The precise amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or drinks other than plain water. Medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding extra needs due to fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress, such as exercise, can reduce this amount. People may drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (overhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that “a person should consume eight glasses of water per day” appears to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtime, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the National Research Council said: "A common standard for many people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The U.S. National Research Council's latest dietary reference intake report generally recommended, based on median total water intake from U.S. survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, noting that water contained in foods provided approx. 19% of total water intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should drink 3 liters (12 cups), since an especially large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the remainder comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Lavando.
Transport
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is generally not used as a reaction solvent, as it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Furthermore, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high thermal capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available in a lake or sea. It is especially effective at transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and the refrigerant (used to exchange waste heat to a mass of water or transport it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, power plant cooling uses the most water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a sort of passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop a reaction and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire Considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of water moves heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or graphite coke, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was observed in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme superheating of the core caused water to turn to steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If they become waterlogged, they can ignite as their contents react with the water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. Additionally, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of running water calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for display, fun, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature, either in the form of ice or crystallized into snow. water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection cisterns, water supply networks and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipelines, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, extracted from artificial holes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable locations is therefore a possible way to produce more water, as long as aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve removing undissolved, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Abundant seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, delivery by tanker trucks or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Reducing use by using safe (potable) water for human consumption only is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Polluting water may be the biggest misuse of water; To the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this is not included in the standard accounting of market costs, being conceived as externalities that the market cannot account for. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is typically treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous sludge, or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate energy. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a hydraulic turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a renewable, low-cost and non-polluting source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built across a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water leaving the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in waterjets and waterjet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cuts. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent saw blades from overheating or overheating. Water is also used in various industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. The disposal of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could “threaten global and national water security”. Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. The water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water increases the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg increases the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water decrease water activity – this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong wind of gas and dust. When this flow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is quickly produced in this hot, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the “discovery shows that water has prevailed in the universe for almost its entire existence”. Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably also exists in abundance in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the Universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar ingredients. water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in detectable traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% throughout the atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in small quantities
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – in small amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar atmospheres of planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean, approximately 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and on Titan, as an underground layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an underground ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. water ice
Water is present as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: primarily as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by the NASA Lunar Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon System
Comets and other objects related to the Kuiper belt and the Oort cloud
And it is probably also present in:

Mercury's Poles
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles likely comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, in which molecules decay into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper, as superionic water, in which oxygen crystallizes but hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital for the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were a little closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to retain an atmosphere, including moisture in the air. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin atmospheres or no atmosphere at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water it contains can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as has been observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damages to biodiversity. Access to drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still do not have access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a source of drinking water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to drinking water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there is enough water for everyone", but that access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments lacking the autonomy to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance consists mainly of knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made when trying to apply “models” that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; An analysis by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that complete and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it should have been. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related illnesses, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22nd and World Oceans Day on June 8th. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water failure" because more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-stressed countries, 4 billion people suffer from water scarcity for at least one month per year, and droughts cost $307 billion per year. He called for policies that correspond to reality and not to the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Religions that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling or drowning) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be said in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless no water is available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purposes of baptism, blessing people, places and objects, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as a source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles viewed water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and considered it an ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the Earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as being cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in benefiting all things and in occupying, without striving (on the contrary), the lower place which all men dislike. Consequently, (its path) is close (to) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet, to attack things that are firm and strong, there is nothing that can take precedence over this - for there is nothing (so effective) by which it can be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 elaborates further on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing natural qualities to the people of different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources. "Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale (“The Water of Life”) and the Russian dichotomy between living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn." According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous series of facts", but rather, its phrases, like its theme, "ebb and flow, rise and rise, join and break, until they subside into the calm stillness of the last 'pestilential marshes, faded flowers, stagnant pools in the waning moon'". Kenner, achieves "the unlikely feat of transforming into poetry all the jumble of insignificant information that has accumulated in school textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the theme in the novel. Below is the hymn quoted in full. What in the water did Bloom, water lover, water drawer, water bearer returning to the mountain range, admire? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy with its nature in the search for its own level: its vastness in the ocean of the Mercator projection: its unfathomable depth in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its surface waves and particles visiting in turn every point of its sea coast: the independence of its units: the variability of sea states: its hydrostatic stillness in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the polar, Arctic and Antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3 to 1 preponderance over the dry land of the globe: its indisputable hegemony extending in square leagues throughout the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multicentury stability of its primitive basin: its luteoful bed: its ability to dissolve and maintain in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: their slow erosions of descending peninsulas and promontories: their alluvial deposits: their weight, volume and density: their imperturbability in highland lagoons and lakes: their gradation of colors in the torrid and temperate and frigid zones: their vehicular branches in streams contained in continental lakes and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf stream, north and south equatorial courses: their violence in tidal waves, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, whirlpools, waves, floods, subterranean waves, river basins, water divisions, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, whirlpools, floods, deluges, downpours: their vast circumterrestrial horizontal curve: their secrecy in sources and moisture latent, revealed by dowsing or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the well near the hole in the wall of the Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its curative virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persevering penetrability in runnels, ravines, inadequate dams, leaks on board: its properties to cleanse, quench thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and model: its metamorphoses as vapor, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, sleet: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and bays and gulfs and bays and bowels and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility in the operation of hydraulic mills, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleaching plants, tanneries, mills: their usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and burial docks: their potential derived from harnessed tides or water courses that fall from level to level: their underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its omnipresence as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lake marshes, pestilential marshes, faded flowers, stagnant pools on the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster was curator of The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever shown at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of rumors and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983 when an April Fools article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catchphrase or ad-lib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water."
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

The world's water data page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Chronology of Water Conflict: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and associated publications
America Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Structure and Science of Water Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary