Water is a non-living group with the chemical formula H2O. It's a pure, tasteless, odorless, and virtually colorless chemical substance. It is the greatest creator of the rivers, lakes and oceans of the world. Water is also the liquid of all known organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding and is a major contributor to physics and chemistry. It is essential for all known life forms, even if it does not provide food energy or organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity resembling small molecules, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure at the Earth's surface are closer to the water triangle, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation as rain and aerosols as clouds. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, stability. When finely distributed, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, and oceans and seas make up the majority of water (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice caps in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (from ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water continuously flows through water cycles of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water is an important part of the global economy. About 70% of freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major source of food for many countries, providing 6.5% of the world’s protein. Most long-distance commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) are transported by boat on seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for heating and cooling in industries and homes. Water is essential for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it has been widely used in industrial processes such as cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are essential to many sports and other recreational activities, such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, scuba diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. On the etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (spring also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old Great German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffix form of root *wed- ('water'; 'moisture'). It is also connected, with the Indo-European root, Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), hence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, Albanian ujë. History
In the environment
Properties of the
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. In the hot room it is a tasteless, odorless liquid, almost colourless, of a bluish colour. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, by far the most studied chemical compound, is also sometimes called the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than a liquid, but it is ineffective at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water found in nature almost always contains a variety of dissolved substances, so special procedures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance in normal terrestrial form as a solid, liquid, and gas. Countries
Along with oxidant, water is one of two official names for the chemical H2O combination; as well as the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common properties of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, gas phase, and water vapor or vapor. Addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (from ice to vapor), and deposition (from vapor to ice). Density is the source
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools under certain temperatures; it is the only known natural substance that does so while being a liquid. Additionally, unusually, it appears less dense as it cools, but it doesn't quite make it. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches a density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, or above freezing at 0 °C (32 °F), the water expands (becoming less dense) until it reaches freezing, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create high pressure, bursting pipes and fracturing rocks. As a solid, it exhibits contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. At 4 °C (39 °F) in a lake or ocean, water sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface as water floats. This ice insulates the water below and keeps it solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic life that lives in the lakes would perish in the summer. Furthermore, this anomalous process plays an important role in thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism is the source
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets a noticeable interaction can be achieved. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts at 0 °C (32 °F) or water freezes (solidifies) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can be converted to vapor at the surface by evaporation (the total vaporization in water is known as boiling point). Sublimation and deposition occur on surfaces. For example, frost condenses on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by condensing on an aerosol particle or ice core. In freeze drying, a food is frozen and kept under low pressure so the ice on the surface sublimates. Its melting and boiling point depend on the pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of molten heat with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display style {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {Left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\text{L}}}
  
 y 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\display style v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, respectively 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\display style L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most materials, volume increases during melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. But because ice is less dense than water, its melting rate slows down. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur in sufficiently thick volumes of ice to form subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies at boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase is less dense than the liquid phase, and the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid in the deep ocean or underground at high temperatures. For example, the temperature at Old Faithful in Yellowstone National Park exceeds 205 °C (401 °F). Temperatures in hydrothermal storms can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the temperature decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time needs to be increased by one-fourth to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. Under vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three and critical points
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at one point, the three point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple line is 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) at a temperature of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which water can be liquid. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve terminates at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the vapor phase of water also forms a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; properties (which are very different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organics. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions with organic compounds. It acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and dissolution of minerals in the Earth's mantle. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. One with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystalline structures. From 2024 onwards, twenty have been confirmed experimentally, and many are predicted theoretically. Ice form eighteen, ice XVIII, a face-centered-cubic, superionic ice phase, was found to be a drop of water subjected to a shock wave that raised water pressure to millions of atmospheres and temperature to thousands of degrees, revealing a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which atoms of hydrogen flowed freely. Sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a rectangular network. The chemical composition of aquatic water is not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Clear water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, and although humans have specific sensors that detect water in their mouths, frogs are also known to have the ability to smell. However, water from ordinary springs (including mineral water) usually contains large amounts of dissolved substances, which can give different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have evolved senses to evaluate the drinkability of water in order to avoid consuming water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Clear water is a visibly blue because of light absorption in the region. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap-water, placed on a clean white surface, in daylight. The dominant absorption bands of the spectrum are overtones of O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the light increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer’s law. This also applies, for example, in a swimming pool, when the light is sunlight reflected off the pool’s white tiles. In the environment, the color may also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, the lower overtones of water mean greater intensity, so glass cuvettes with short path-lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material that is commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can survive in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight reaches them. Almost no sunlight reaches the lower parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters depth. The refractive index of aqueous water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6); is lower than these. The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the tetrahedron, in the center of the oxygen. The other two corners contain lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge, while the hydrogen atom has some positive charge. Together with the bending action, this imparts an electric dipole moment to the molecule, which is then distributed in a polar molecule. Water is an excellent polar solvent and dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also absorbs many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the fizz of carbonated beverages, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between the water and subunits of these biomacromolecules cause protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other crucial phenomena (hydrophobic effect). Many substances (oils, fats, and alkanes) are hydrophobic and insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metallic oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules in the liquid or solid state. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force and attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why water has a higher melting point and boiling point than similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (from 0.561 to 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water better suited to moderate the Earth’s climate by storing and transporting heat between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to 492 kJ/mol covalent O–H bond). Then, 90% is attributable to electrostatics and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. The bonds are the cause of the high surface tension and capillary force of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube under gravitational force. This property is assumed by all vascular plants, including trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conduction and electrolysis
Pure water has a low energy content, which is increased by the dissolution of low ionic material, such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—this is called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water has a decrease of only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in water is 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with low attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity of the
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially alkali metals and less alkaline earth metals, expel hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the environment
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of groundwater limnology, and of the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Hydrology and ecological processes are under the scope of ecohydrology. The accumulated mass of water found on the planet’s surface, bottom, and surface is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate volume (global total water) is 1.386 trillion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Aquatic water is found in bodies of water, such as the ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, lake, or puddle. The most abundant water in the world is ocean water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor forms. It is also present as groundwater in aquifers. Water plays an important role in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for melting, creating volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water plays an important role in both chemical and physical climate change. Water and, to a lesser extent but still a significant amount, ice are transporters of much of the sediment that occurs at the surface of the earth. Transported sediment deposits produce many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth history. Water circle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water flows permanently through the water cycle in each of the following regions from the following transfer processes:

air emissions from oceans and other bodies of water, emissions from terrestrial plants and animals. precipitation, the accumulation of water vapor from the air that falls on land or ocean. runoff from the land reached the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor to the land surface at the same rate as seawater flux, about 47 Tt per year and evaporation and transpiration passing through the land masses contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at the surface of the earth in 119 Tt, takes many forms: mainly rain, snow, and hail, with some help from clouds and hail. Dew is tiny droplets of water that coalesce when high density water vapor hits a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, before the sun rises and surface temperatures begin to rise. Moisture collected in the air can also block sunlight, creating rainbows. Runoff often accumulates over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, water flow shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas which provide rich soil and lowlands for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when a piece of land, usually in a low-lying area, is covered by water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years during which a country experiences water scarcity. This is the case when a region consistently receives below-average precipitation due to topography or latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural resources of water that are useful to humans, such as drinking water supplies or water for irrigation. Water appears as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or liquid water, ice and snow. Of the world’s freshwater, 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent is in groundwater; the remaining 1 percent is in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The amount of water that remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate frequently, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. For some regions, a large portion of the water supply consists of withdrawn water in reservoirs, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, reserves are depleted. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of all water for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, resulting in groundwater depletion. Seawater and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from those of freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (approximately −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and reaches higher density at temperatures warmer than freezing as the temperature decreases. The salinity of the water in the high seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity, ranging from 30 to 40%, is actually a salt lake). Tides are the rotational rise and fall of local tides due to the action of the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun on the oceans. Tides change under marine and estuarine waters, creating oscillating currents known as tidal currents. Tidal changes generated in a particular area are the result of changes in the Moon’s relative position to the Sun’s Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seabed that is exposed to high submergence and low tide is the intertidal zone, which is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on survival
From a biological perspective, water has many unique properties that are essential for the reproduction of life. It performs this function by allowing organic compounds to react, enabling subsequent replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is essential both as a solvent in which many of the body’s solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (by enzymatic chemical reactions requiring energy) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuels and information storage). During catabolism, water is used to break down bonds to create smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other uses). Without water, these particular metabolic processes would not occur. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate water’s hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to absorb solar energy and renew water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid that donates a hydrogen ion (H+, which is a proton) can be neutralized by a base that accepts a proton such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral if it has a pH (the negative log of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 optimally. Acids have a pH less than 7 and bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic organisms
Surface waters are teeming with life. The first life forms occurred in water; most fish are aquatic, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Seaweed and algae are aquatic plants that form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is the foundation of the marine food chain. Aquatic skeletons need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals, need to surface regularly to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit many modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life is aquatic, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has always flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the Tiber River in Italy. Major metropolitan areas such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong are partly due to easy water access and commercial expansion. Islands with good water ports like Singapore have similarly flourished. In areas such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water supplies are relatively scarce, access to clean drinking water has been, and continues to be, a major contribution to human development. Health and pollution
Water that is fit for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by other means. More than 660 million people lack access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by a variety of names, depending on whether it is drinkable or potable water, and is sometimes referred to as safe water, or "safe for bathing." Chlorine is an irritant to the skin and mucous membranes and is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is largely covered by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine for bathing water that has not yet reacted with contaminants). Water for bathing can be kept in good microbiological conditions with chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or ultraviolet light. Water treatment is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage and municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. With 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, the average person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is generated worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access result from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and rising populations. Currently, nearly a billion people worldwide lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to reduce by half the world’s access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN adopted the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe, affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and sanitation are deadly; about five million people a year die from water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Almost 50 countries, comprising about one-third of the world’s population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, with 17 of these countries extracting more water each year than they recharge through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater such as rivers and lakes, but also damages groundwater resources. The job of the person
Agricultural work
The majority of human water use is for agriculture and irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn is used for irrigation, but most of the water that is "consumed" (used, not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Freshwater availability is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed sophisticated water systems for water collection, treatment, delivery, and wastewater disposal. But growing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures are exacerbating water concerns, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, creating the concept of peak water. As populations and economies grow, water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increase, new water challenges may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to ensure that there is sufficient water in the world to feed a growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture and mapped areas affected by water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion people, live in areas of water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demand. More than 1.6 billion people live in areas of water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or inadequate human capacity means that governments are unable to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but if current food production and environmental conditions continue, problems will arise in many areas. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase production to meet growing food demands, and industries and cities must find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is caused by the production of water-intensive products. Cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—is needed to produce 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water. Cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world’s water consumption, which is consumed in countries already at risk of water scarcity. The environment was severely damaged: for example, the former Soviet Union’s diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific principle
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a pure liquid, equal to one hundredth of a cubic meter, even at the temperature of melting ice." But good results required a metallic reference standard, thousands of times heavier, the kilogram. Therefore, work was ordered to determine the exact mass of a quart of water. Although the standard definition of a gram specifies water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and conduct their measurements at higher water density temperatures, which at the time were measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system’s Kelvin temperature scale was based on the three-point water point, defined at exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it was based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which is initially defined as the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water is composed primarily of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes contains fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mid-Ocean Water specification. From the cave
The human body, on average, is 50–60% water, depending on age, sex, and body size, but individuals can have anywhere from 45% to 75% water. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is consumed with other foods or drinks other than drinking water directly. Medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for an average man, to avoid increased requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can produce 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but it can reduce stress like exercise. People can drink more water while exercising, putting them at risk for water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Consuming enough water helps prevent constipation. An early recommendation on water intake was published in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. According to the National Research Council, "An ordinary standard for various people is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The latest report on reference dietary intake in the U.S. The National Research Council generally recommended that the median total water intake in the U.S. be less than 10 percent. survey data (such as food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for males and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for females, unaware that the water provided in food contained approximately 19% of the total water intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends, on average, men drink 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 gal US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 gal US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should take 3 liters (12 cups) because of the usually great fluid loss during lactation. It is also noted that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the rest coming from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is secreted by the body in many ways; with urine and feces, sweating and exhaling water vapor in the breath. Due to physical activity and heat loss, water loss will increase and daily water requirements may increase. People need low pollution water. Common impurities include metals like copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are beneficial and desirable for improving flavor and providing needed electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) source of freshwater drinking water is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing up
Transportation is available
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reagent, and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In non-living processes, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds like ammonia , and compounds closely related to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve reactants well, is amphoteric (acidic and basic), and is nucleophilic. Yet these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, the speed of Diels-Alder reactions with water was observed. Supercritical water is a recent research topic. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water effectively burns organic pollutants. Temperature change
Water and steam are popular fluids used for heat exchange because of their availability and high heat capacity for heating and cooling. Warm water can be obtained naturally from the lake or sea. It is especially convenient to transfer heat through water vaporization and condensation because of the large latent heat of vaporization. Another disadvantage is that metals found in industries such as steel and copper are more readily oxidized by untreated water and steam. In most thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and as a cooling fluid (to transfer the waste heat to the water body or to transport it dry in a cooling tower). Cooling plants use the most water in the United States. In nuclear fuel, water can be used as a neutron medium. In most nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are favored to stop a reaction and it is better to cover the nuclear core with water so that it can cool properly. Observations of fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is inert, making it an effective firefighting liquid. The evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires that involve oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on the surface of the water, which tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the dangers of vapor explosions when water is used in high-temperature fires in confined spaces and hydrogen explosions when water-reactive substances, such as certain metals or hot carbon, coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose water to produce water gas. Such explosion energy was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, but in this case the water did not come from the fire extinguishing system but from the cooling water of the reactor itself. A steam explosion occurred when the core overheated and condensed into water vapor. The hydrogen explosion was caused by the reaction of steam and hot zirconium. Certain metallic molecules, most notably chemical oxides and alkali earth metals, react with water to produce high temperatures that can create a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a widely manufactured ingredient often carried in leaf bags. When these are drained, the contents may ignite as is done with water. Have fun
People use water for many recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. These include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing, and scuba diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on the ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and have fun. Many people find the sound and shape of stream water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are considered popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals inside an aquarium or pond for display, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which must be at low temperatures either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater (and wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks, water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes and old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected in wells, taken from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Thus, it is possible to drill more wells in suitable locations to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. For human consumption, water would require purification. This can include removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances, and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, and chlorination and boiling, which kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three steps. Aswan ñawpaqman puriq técnicas nisqakunam kan, ahinataq ósmosis inversa nisqa. Achka mamaqucha yakupa desalinización nisqa aswan chaninniyuq solucionmi, costa nisqapi ch’aki pachakunapi. Chay upyana yaku rakiyqa ruwakun sistemas municipales de agua nisqawan, tanquekuna apachiywan utaq botellapi yaku hina. Achka nacionkunapi gobiernokunam programakunata ruranku mana qullqillapaq yakuta pisichiqkunaman rakinankupaq. Runakunapa mikhunallanpaq upyana (upyana) yakuta llamk’achispa pisiyachiyqa huk ruwaymi. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to preserve fresh water. Yakuta qhillichaspaqa aswan hatun sapallanmi yakuta mana allin apaykachana kanman; to the extent that a pollutant degrades water and other uses, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into standard accounting for market costs because it is conceived of as external and cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, other people pay the cost of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local residents affected by the pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can cause harmful effects on aquatic life even if they are bioaccumulated and not biodegradable. Municipal y industrial nisqa qhilli yakukunaqa qhilli yaku chuyanchana wasikunapim chuyanchasqa kanku. Chay qhillichasqa hawapi puririykunata pisiyachiyqa imaymana hark’aywan, hampiywan ima ruwakun. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on processes using metals dissolved in water to dissolve metals in suspension or water to dissolve substances, remove them, or wash products or work equipment. Mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and heating use large amounts of water, requiring a separate water source and often causing significant water pollution. Water is used in power generation. Hidroeléctrica nisqaqa yaku kallpamanta hurqusqa electricidadmi. Hidroeléctrica nisqa kallpaqa yakumantam hamun, yaku turbinata, generadorwan tinkisqata purichisqanmanta. Hidroeléctrica nisqaqa pisi qullqiyuq, mana qhillichakuq, musuqyachiy atiymi. The energy is provided by the motion of the water. Tipicamente huk represaqa mayu patapi ruwakun, qhipanpi huk artificial quchata paqarichispa. Quchamanta lluqsiq yakuqa turbinakunatam kallpawan purichin, chaykunam generadorkunata tikran. Yaku ñit'isqa yakuqa yaku ruphaypi, yaku ch'unchul kuchukunapipas llamk'achisqam. Alta presión yaku pistolakunatam llamk'achinku allinta kuchunapaq. Ancha allintam llamkan, mana imamanta manchakuspam, manataqmi pachamamapaqpas mana allinchu. Hinallataqmi maquinariakuna q'uñichiypipas llamk'achinku, mana llumpay q'uñikunanpaq, icha sierrapa cuchillankuna mana llumpay q'uñikunanpaq. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, and as a chemical solvent. Industrial nisqakunamanta mana chuyanchasqa yaku lluqsiyqa qhillichakuymi. Qhillichayqa chulluchisqa solutukunam (qhichwa simipi qhillichasqa) , qhillichasqa q'uñi yakupas (qhillichasqa q'uñichiy). Industriaqa achka ruwaykunapaqmi chuya yakuta munan, chaymi imaymana chuyanchay ruwaykunata yaku quypipas, lluqsichiypipas. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence, uses a lot of water, so the spread of AI "could threaten water security globally and nationally." Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often involve dipping food into a liquid or gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Yakupas achka hatun ruwaykunata ruwan mikhuy yachay ukhupi. Yakupi tarikuq kachikuna, azúcarkuna hina solutos nisqakunam yakupa propiedades físicas nisqakunata afectan. Yakup timpuyninpas, chiriyninpas solutos nisqawanmi afectasqa, chaynallataqmi wayrapa ñitiyninpas, chaymi altitud nisqawan afectasqa. Yakuqa aswan pisi q'uñipi timpun aswan pisi wayra ñit'iywan aswan altokunapi rikuriq. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, the addition of dissolved particles lowers the water temperature. Solutes in water also affect water composition, affecting many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. The work of water can be expressed as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth results in low water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and storage. Water hardness is also important in food processing and can be modified or treated by a chemical ion exchange system. This can seriously affect the quality of a product and play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors make it clear that this is a global average because circumstantial factors determine how much water is used in beef production. Work for medicine
Injection fluid is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in the environment
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is formed as a by-product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material ultimately collides with the surrounding gas, the created shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water is evaporated immediately in this cool dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report announced the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor, "140 billion times more watery than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years away from Earth. According to scientists, "the findings suggest that water has been abundant in the universe for most of its entire existence." Found water in interstellar clouds inside the Milky Way. Water must also be abundant in other galaxies, since hydrogen and oxygen are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the solar system and other star systems, most other planetary systems would have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is in the form of vapor:

The solar atmosphere: visibility in traces
Mercury’s atmosphere: 3.4%, and a lot of water in Mercury’s exosphere
Venus’ atmosphere: 0.002% . Surface humidity: ≈0.40% of the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% above
Moon atmosphere: low
Martian atmosphere: 0.03% . The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – ices only; and that of its European month
Saturn’s atmosphere – ices only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (deep ocean) . Uranus’s atmosphere – less than 50 bar
Neptune’s atmosphere – located in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, including Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: found not only in the coolest stars, but also in the superhot stars, such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares, and Arcturus. Round stellar disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water on Mars is also sometimes in short supply. Scientists think that liquid water exists on Enceladus's Saturnian moons, as a 10-kilometre-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, while Titan, as an underground layer, is probably mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an underground liquid ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede, as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. It's ice
The water is like ice:

 Mars: under regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA announced the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Lunar Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres is a character
The moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa as well as the surfaces of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and in the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Carron system
Comets with a corresponding Kuiper belt Oort cloud objects
And it probably includes:

The poles of Mercury
Thetis is a character

Exotic forms
Water and other solids likely make up much of the inner structures of Uranus and Neptune and water in the deeper layers can be a form of ionic water where molecules break into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, deeper like superionic water where oxygen crystallizes, but hydrogen ions within the oxygen layer it flows freely. The ability to survive on planets with water
The presence of water on Earth as liquid, and to a lesser extent as gas and solid, is essential to the existence of life as we know it on Earth. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were closer to or farther away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions allowing these three forms to exist simultaneously would be less likely. The size of the earth also plays a role: its weight allows it to hold an atmosphere and the humidity of the air. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (the greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature whenever it is abundant. The state of water on a planet depends on the pressure of the atmosphere, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If a planet is large enough, the water there can be extremely cold because of the high pressure exerted by gravity, as seen in exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics affected by and with water. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important part of many political conflicts. It causes health problems and biodiversity damage. Safe drinking water has improved in most of the world in recent decades, but nearly a billion people lack access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. But some observers predict that by 2025 more than half of the world’s population will be water vulnerable. A report published in November 2009 predicts that by 2030, water demand in some developing countries will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water since 1990. The proportion of people with safe water in developing countries is estimated to have risen from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report said there is "enough water for everyone." but that access is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global aid effectiveness initiatives, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not taken hold as water sector funders in education and health, which can leave many donors involved in matching projects and recipient governments powerless to take action. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited inadequate management as the cause of some water shortages. Water management is a combination of formal and informal processes used to make decisions related to water management. Effective water management is essentially a matter of knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes are sometimes made in trying to apply ‘plans’ that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong is an example; An International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water has found that adequate and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely conducted. They also noted that Cambodia’s draft water law is particularly complex. In 2004, UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from water-related diseases that are often tied to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO’s World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 forecast states that two billion people (26% of the population) will have no access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) will have inadequate access to regulated sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is said to be endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report estimates that 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with severe or severe water stress. Yet water use has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to continue growing at the same rate through 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. These floods between 2000 and 2019 caused 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management conducts projects to reduce poverty through efficient use of water management. Water-related treaties include the United Nations Convention on the Convention on Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Shipping, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on 22nd March and World Earth Day is on 8th June. By 2026, the United Nations predicted that humanity is entering a "Water-rich" era, with 50% greater lakes depleted since 1990, 35% wetlands lost since 1970, 75% of the world's population live in water-scarce regions, 4 billion people lack water for at least one month a year millions of dollars were spent. It called for policies that match reality, not old norms. In the culture
From the point of view of religion
Water is considered a purifying agent in most religions. Ritual washing (ablution) religions include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Human immersion (or sprinkling or afusion) is the central Sacrament of the Christian faith (where baptism is called); part of the practice of other religions such as Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, ritual baths with holy water for the dead are practiced in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases by washing parts of the body with clean water (wudu) if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in most rituals to purify a person or an area (e.g., in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for baptism, to bless people, places, and objects, or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. The study of philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles regarded water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as the ylem or basic substance of the universe. Aristotle’s demonstration as an astronomer and engineer argued that earth thicker than water came from water. Thales, a monist, increasingly believed that all matter was made up of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – a cube shape that flowed easily in relation to the earth. The theory of the four bodily humors compared water to phlegm, being cold and damp. The classic element of water was one of the five elements in ancient Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some ancient and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a symbol. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest virtue is like water (of water). The virtue of water appears to be that it benefits everything and, effortlessly (contrarily), occupies a little space that is disliked by all." Therefore (the way) is near (its) Tao" and "There is nothing on earth softer and weaker than water, yet nothing to attack those of solid strength can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter further elaborates on water symbolism natural qualities of people in various regions of China, to the character of local water resources Folklore
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of reviving the dead. Consider Grimm's fable ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a fitting idea of magical waters preventing old age. Art and activism
In Irish author James Joyce's famous modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the "Ithaca" section is like a catechism with 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song." According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not "a series of "one-off facts," but its lyrics, like their theme, "elb and flow, lift and swell, gather and break, until they shrink to the peaceful silence ending 'fens pestilential, flower water lost, pools stagnant in waning moon.' Among the most impressive passages in Ithaca, and in the words of literary critic Hugh Kenner, “he achieves the incredible feat of elevating to poetry the jumble of all the foot stories collected in schoolbooks”. The literary motif of water reflects the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the song marks the end of the motif in the novel. The following is the song quoted in its entirety. What did Bloom in the water, water lover, water drawer, water carrier return, admire the range?Its universality: democratic equality and naturally consistent search for one's own level: Mercator's projection at sea: Pacific's unplumbed depth in the Sundam trench of 8,000 fathoms more: the waves and restlessness of surface particles visiting in turn all points of their coast: the independence of their units: the variability of sea states: their hydrostatic quiescence in calm: their hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: their subsidence after devastation: their sterility in circumpolar, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial significance: its 3-to-1 preponderance over the dry land of the world: its undisputed hegemony extends in square leagues across the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: multisecular stability of its primeval basin: luteoful bed: its capacity to melt and hold in solution all soluble substances even millions of tonnes of most precious metals: slow erosion of peninsulas and downhill promontories: alluvial deposits: weight, volume and density: imperturbability in lagoons and highland tarn: gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: vehicular ramifications lake continental in confluent streams and rivers confluent oceans with tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf currents, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in sea motions, water outfalls, artesian springs, eruptions, rivers, eddies, frescoes, swords, land in shadows, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, hydromassages, storms, floods, delugees, cloudbursts: great circumterrestrial horizontal curve: wells, concealment: springs, and latent moisture, indicated by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments, on wall at Ashtown gate hole and well example, air saturation, ice distillation: simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts hydrogen and one constituent part oxygen: its healing virtues: buoyancy in Dead Sea waters: permanent penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, bad dams, ship leaks: properties to cleanse, dry, quench fire, nourish vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and paragone: its metamorphosis as steam, fog, cloud, rain, snow, sleet, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and lows and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: their solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: their docility in hydraulic mills, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleachers, tanners, scutchmills: their usefulness channels, rivers, if navigable, docks in floats and gravels: its potentiality derivable from tapped tides or water flows falling from level to level: submarine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobic) numerically, not literally, inhabiting the earth: ubiquity constituent 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvium in lacustrine swamps, pestilential fens, lost flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at St. John the Divine Cathedral in New York, anchoring the Cathedral’s year-long work on our dependence on water. It was the largest exhibition at the cathedral, featuring over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being recognized as a UN human right, WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact clean water has on people’s lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in many hoaxes and jokes that mock scientific illiteracy. It all began in 1983 with an April Fool’s Day article in a Durand, Michigan newspaper. The false warning was about safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done so include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Read more about the
External links

Environmental Water Fact Sheet
FAO Comprehensive Water Report, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Geological Survey (USGS) . Portal World Bank strategy, operations and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Web
Water structure and science Retrieved December 28, 2014 from Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe," Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Water and Steam Properties Association Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS