Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is the main component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds, which contribute greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water continuously moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually ending up in the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans is used for agriculture. Fisheries in salt and freshwater bodies have been and continue to be a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also essential for many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or suffixed form of water *; Also related, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English "hydro-"), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vạj. history
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogen, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is weak at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. states
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor), and deposition (vapor to ice). The density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools over certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does this while liquid. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becoming less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its liquid phase density is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would perish during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a notable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into vapor at its surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting under pressure can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple points and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are density sensitive. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several others are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When placed between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the c. 600–800 nm region. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. Apparent color intensity increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This is also true, for example, in the case of a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of water's undertones means that short-length glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the vat must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material that is commonly used for the windows of aqueous solution tanks. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of an oxygen-centered tetrahedron. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving the gas to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules form protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena crucial to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonds
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain the exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is based on all vascular plants such as trees. Autoionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that is exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen in water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water on Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor form. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water constantly moves through each of these regions in the water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the land or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as outflow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration over land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often collects over water basins that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat terrain for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a deficiency in water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall, either due to its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water appears as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69% is stored in glaciers and permanent snowpack; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1% in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. A substantial part of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decline. According to some estimates, up to 30% of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater abstractions, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. Water salinity in the high seas ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of 30 to 40 percent, is indeed a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The flux produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, coupled with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of shoreline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
Biologically, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve, and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, i.e. a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have pH values greater than 7. Aquatic Life Forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water and there are many types of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as algae and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in various ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for breathing in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting commercial expansion. Islands with safe water ports like Singapore have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean drinking water has been and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking, but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing, is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological conditions using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of transforming wastewater (most commonly wastewater, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it result from uneven natural distribution in space and time, growing economic demand from agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Water Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide who do not have access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe drinking water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of these withdraw more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most substantial human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for up to 80 to 90% of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and supply water and dispose of wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are raising concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands grow for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that continuing today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to work to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - the equivalent of a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter and at the temperature of melting ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was needed. Therefore, works were commissioned to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is instead based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water in rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Standard water is therefore defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, sex, and body size, although individuals can be anywhere from 45% to 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or drink other than drinking water directly. The medical literature favors a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink much more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with meals, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original 1945 recommendation for water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council. said: "A common standard for various people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The most recent US National Research Council Reference Intake Report generally recommended, based on the average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of water for women, about 19% of total dietary water. the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), and breastfeeding women should consume 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in several forms; through urine and faeces, through sweat, and through the exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may increase as well. People need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest freshwater resource (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has also been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a research topic. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange due to their availability and high heat capacity for both cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective at transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its high latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or to transport it by evaporation to a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods of stopping a reaction are preferred and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing liquid. The evaporation of the water takes the heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the dangers of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in enclosed spaces, and a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon, such as coal, coal or coke graphite, break down the water, producing gaseous water. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from firefighting, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused the water to turn to steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth lime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are soaked, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on the ice. Lakeshores, beaches, and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and look of running water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature, either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting tanks, water supply networks and water purification plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable places is thus a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation fulfills all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, delivery by tanker or in the form of bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to the needy. Reducing use by using drinking water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it does not enter into standard market cost accounting, being conceived of as externalities for which the market cannot account. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated at wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in water suspensions, or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water supply and often causing significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of energy. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a renewable, non-polluting and cheap source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and doesn't harm the environment. It is also used in cooling machines to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI may "threaten global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. The water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes as well as air pressure, which is in turn affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutions in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Water solutions lower water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low water activity levels. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate it contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (USA). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also state that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's Atmosphere: In Detectable Traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
The Moon's Atmosphere: In Traces
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – only in ice; and that of his month Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - in traces below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – found in the deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar discs: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon System: Mainly as ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: In the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects related to the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud
And is also probably present on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superionic water where the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float without oxygen. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: gravity allows it to retain an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, Politics and Crisis
Water policy is a policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost every part of the world, but about one billion people still lack access to safe drinking water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, issued in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. It is estimated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. hampered by poor management and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as a reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing the processes that work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply "plans" that work in the developed world to the locations and contexts of the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's water bill was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided policy makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations working on water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects to use effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day is on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "water bankruptcy", as more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, it costs at least one month of water per billion countries, it costs at least one month per year of water scarcity. 307 billion dollars a year. It called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or sprinkling or affusion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also a part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, for the blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and regarded it as a ylem or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, still believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as cold and wet. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its benefiting all things, and in its occupation, without striving (contrary), of the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to (that of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and powerful, there is nothing that takes precedence – because there is nothing (so effective) that it can be exchanged for”. attributing the natural qualities of people in different Chinese regions to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy between living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are supposed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject matter, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they reach the calm stillness of the finale "pestilent oozes, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the moon's waning passage" is considered the most waning mark of the moon. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of elevating to poetry all the clutter of information that has accumulated in school textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the theme of the novel "eternal life, ever-changing", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. Following is the hymn quoted in full. What on earth did Bloom, the water-loving, water-drawer, water-carrier, admire returning to the area? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unfathomable depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 fathoms exceeding 8,000 fathoms of its waves: all the turning points of its waves. littoral: independence of its units: variability of sea states: its hydrostatic stillness in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity at tide and spring: its subsidence after devastation: its barrenness in circumpolar, arctic, and antarctic ice caps: its climatic and commercial significance: its preponderance of 3 to 1 dry square over undisputed land on its globe: leagues over all the region below the sub-equatorial tropic of Capricorn: its stability centuries of its primordial basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and retain in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosions of peninsulas and descending promontories: its alluvial deposits: great weight and volume and immutability: its gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular ramifications in the continental lake contained streams and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf currents, north and south equatorial currents: its violence in earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian fountains, eruptions, fresh rivers, torrents, eddies water-partings, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial and horizontal curve: the secret in springs and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments, and exemplified by the well by the hole of Ashtown: the simplicity of the saturation in the wall of Ashtown, the simplicity of the saturation. its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetrativeness in belts, gutters, inadequate dams, shipboard leaks: its properties for cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation as paradigm and paragons as paradigm and metamorphosis: fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lagoons and gulfs and gulfs and hollows and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minks and tidal estuaries and estuaries: its solidity in glaciers, work counters, hydraulics in glaciers mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, bleachers, tanneries, mills scutch: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks, and gravity: its potential derived from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobes: its inhabitants literally numerical, if not) ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxity of its effluvia in lake marshes, pestilential fountains, discolored flower water, pools stagnant in the waning month. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a number of pranks and hoaxes mocking scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983 when a April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. The music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a catchphrase or adlib of sorts. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World water data page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to World Bank strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary