Water is an organic compound with the formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless substance. It is a major component of the world's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the water of all known living things, where it acts as medicine. Water, being a polar molecule, forms strong intermolecular hydrogen bonds that play an important role in physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its ubiquitous presence, chemical nature, universal density, and great specificity compared to its small size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because Earth's surface temperature is about three times that of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are composed of suspended droplets of water and ice, its structure. When properly distributed, ice crystals can fall into the form of snow. Gaseous water is water or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water (about 96.5%). Smaller amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the ice and snow of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as air, clouds (composed of ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and rain (0.001%). Water moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), accumulation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Salt and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, a major food source in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most of the long-haul trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ship through oceans, rivers, lakes, and streams. A lot of water, ice, and steam are used to cool and heat factories and homes. Water is a good catalyst for many things, mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also important for sports and other recreation, such as swimming, boating, sailing, swimming, sport fishing, diving, skiing, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old German Wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, form of root *wed- (') water; Note also, using the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian water. History
In the world
The best
Water (H2O) is polar. At room temperature it is tasteless and odorless, almost colorless and blue. Hydrogen is a very simple chalcogenide, by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes referred to as the "universal drug" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor in dissolving non-polar substances. This makes it the "solvent of life": in fact, water as it occurs in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain pure chemical water. Water is the only substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal conditions on Earth. Countries
Along with the oxide, water is one of the two official chemical names for H2O; and the water phase of H2O. The other two common elements of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or air. Adding or removing heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to water), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and condensation (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the most natural substances that expands and shrinks as it cools at a certain temperature; it is the only known naturally occurring species that does so in water. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes very cold as it cools, although it is not unusual in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches a density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below temperature, but above freezing at 0°C (32°F), water expands (is less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), water condenses. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create high pressures, burst pipes and break rocks. As a strain, it shows a natural tendency to spread and become more dense as it cools. This unusual temperature pattern has important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms at the top, floating on top of the water. This ice protects the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, many of the aquatic life in the lakes would die during the winter. Additionally, this unusual behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat throughout the world's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with special magnets they can achieve a visible interaction. The transition
At one atmospheric pressure (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0°C (32°F) and water boils or evaporates at 100°C (212°F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into vapor above its temperature (evaporation in all liquids is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, freezing is deposited on the surface of the ice while snow is deposited on the aerosol layer or nucleus. During freeze-drying, the food is cooled and stored at a low temperature so that the ice on its surface shrinks. Melting and boiling depends on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T. d
              P =
        
          
            
              T. (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L. -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S.)
              
            
            
              L. f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L. {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S. {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 is the molar mass of liquids and solids, and 
  
    
      
        
          L. f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the latent heat of melting. In most substances, volume increases when melting occurs, so the temperature of melting increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, its melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, rapid melting can occur below a sufficient thickness of ice, resulting in underground lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with a liquid/gas exchange the air phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in warm water in the deep oceans or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea, the boiling point of water is 100°C (212°F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C per 274 meters. Boiling at high altitudes takes longer than boiling at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a factor of four to achieve the desired result. Conversely, the grill can be used to shorten the cooking time by raising the temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three important points
On the heat/temperature scale (see figure), there are lines that separate solids from gases, vapors from liquids, and liquids from solids. This converges at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. Three points are at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611,657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which water can exist. Until 2019, three terms were used to define the Kelvin temperature. The liquid/gas phase ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and gas particles form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually change or expand between gas and gas and density; its nature (very different from natural water) is sensitive. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with non-polar substances, including many organic substances. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electricity and as an environmental catalyst or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the earth's crust, it acts as a solvent during mineralization, smelting and casting. Phases of ice and water
The most common type of ice on Earth is ice Ih, a crystalline phase with a thickness of about six centimeters. Another cubic crystal, ice Ic, can be seen in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and many more have been predicted in reality. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, the center-cubic ice phase, the superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to high pressure that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a solid state of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When placed in the center of graphene, the ice forms a square. The details of the chemical properties of water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two states of water. Taste and smell
Fresh water is defined as tasteless and odorless, although humans with special sensors can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell. However, water from regular sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give you different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that help them assess the potential of water to avoid salty or putrid water. Color and texture
Pure water is visible blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in water-filled glasses against a white background, during the day. The main absorption region responsible for the color is the surface of the O–H stretch. The apparent intensity of color increases with the height of the water column, following Beer's law. This is also used, for example, with swimming pools when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended vegetation or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with liquid solutions because the high density of the liquid bottom means that glass cuvettes with long-distance paths can be used. In order to observe the diffusion process of an important liquid or aqueous solution in an area of ​​3,500 cm - 1 (2.85 mm) a path length of 25 meters is needed. Also, the cuvette must be transparent to about 3,500 cm - 1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one common ingredient used on cuvette windows and liquid solutions. Changes in Raman activity can be seen with, for example, the size of 1 cm. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters, because the sun can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,300 meters deep. The refractive index of water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The ice reduction ratio (1.31) is lower than that of water. Polar units
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom makes an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms closest to the two sides of the tetrahedron are centered on oxygen. At the other two angles are the only valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a regular tetrahedron, the atoms would have an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between individual atoms is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other elements have a tetrahedral structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atom is partially charged. Along with the bent shape, this gives the molecule an electric dipole position and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving most salts and hydrophilic molecules like sugars and simple alcohols like ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter providing the fizz of carbonated drinks, still wine and beer. Additionally, many components of living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are water soluble. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules causes protein degradation, DNA binding, and other important factors in life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic compounds (such as oils and fats and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic compounds are also insoluble, including many metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Water hydrogen has ten times the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in bulk water. This is the reason why the melting point and boiling point are so high compared to other substances like hydrogen sulfide. They also describe specific specific energy (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and heat of combustion (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). This property makes water effective in changing the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the ocean and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bond of water is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to covalent O–H at 492 kJ/mol). Of these, it is estimated that 90% is electrostatic, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These supports are what cause the water to rise above the temperature of the force and the capillary force. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise through a small channel relative to the force of gravity. This property is based on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-esteem
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O + + OH−, combined with solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electricity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical charge, which increases with the concentration of low ionic compounds such as common salt. Water can be broken down into hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the reaction (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Machine tools
Water can be considered impermeable for several reasons: its density ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa − 1 under normal conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 kilometers, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water has a reduction of only 1.8%. The freezing point of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little sensitivity, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a resource used by Canadians and people to communicate with the environment (sonar). Actions
Metals with higher electrical conductivity than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earths, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a type of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the world. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecosystems and hydrology are part of the ecosystem. The amount of water found on, below, and above the surface of the planet is called hydrosis. The average amount of water on Earth (total water supplied to Earth) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic kilometers). Freshwater is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also found in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and gaseous states. It is also present as ground water in water. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is found in many rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects the process of repair. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. On Earth, water is important in both climate and climate. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for most of the surface water transport found on Earth. Deposits of transported debris form many types of igneous rocks, which make up the geological history of the world. Waterway
The water cycle (technically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water that moves through each region of the water cycle consists of the following types of movement:

transpiration from oceans and other water bodies into the atmosphere and exchange of land plants and animals into the atmosphere. rain, which comes from water vapor that collects in the atmosphere and falls to the earth or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the oceans is returned to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as seawater, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and evaporation over land also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes many forms: mainly rain, snow, and ice, with contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that form when large amounts of water vapor come into contact with a cold surface. Dew usually occurs when the temperature is very low, before the sun rises and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Water in the atmosphere can also reduce sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff collects on the surface of water flowing in rivers. Through erosion, water flows create ecosystems that create river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of community centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when an area experiences a water shortage. This happens when the region receives consistently below average rainfall due to its topography or due to its latitude in terms of latitude. Water resources
A water resource is a natural water resource that can be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water exists as "reservoirs" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, streams, groundwater or rivers, and ice and snow. Of the world's freshwater, about 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, air, and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage is highly variable: some streams contain water that has been stored for thousands of years, but the size of the lake can change seasonally, shrinking in the summer and increasing in the summer. A large portion of the water in some areas consists of water extracted from aquifers that are stored in reservoirs, and when the withdrawal exceeds the payment, the storage is depleted. Some estimate that as much as 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from irreversible groundwater abstraction, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus other small amounts. The physical structure of oceans differs from freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of the sea water varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity of between 30 and 40%, is a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Water causes changes in the water content of oceans and estuaries and produces alternating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced in a particular area are the result of the changes of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth and the effects of the Earth's rotation and local tides. The part of the ocean that is flooded by high water and visible at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important part of the marine environment. Impact on health
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are very important to life. It accomplishes this task by allowing organisms to function in ways that allow them to reproduce. All known forms of life are based on water. Water is important both as the body's most energy-soluble substance and as an essential component of many metabolic processes. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through the energy of an enzymatic chemical reaction) to produce larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break down chains to create smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, these special processes cannot occur. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photovoltaic cells use solar energy to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All cells use fuel and convert hydrogen and carbon to absorb solar energy and regenerate water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also concentrated in neutral acid-base and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e. a proton donor), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal state. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a pH value greater than 7. The state of aquatic life
Earth's waters are teeming with life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many species of mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of some aquatic life. Plankton are usually the base of the marine food chain. Marine animals need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have lungs rather than lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to be seen regularly to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Inhabitants show many adaptations for living in low-oxygen waters including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as non-living organisms have evolved into aquatic environments, many have or have not specialized to breathe in water. Impact on human behavior
Culture developed historically along rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cultural nomads, was located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was based entirely on the Nile. The Early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) flourished along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success through water and trade expansion. Islands with freshwater ports, such as Singapore, have developed for the same reason. In areas such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Life is dirty
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or clean water. Non-potable water can be produced by filtration or filtration, or in a variety of ways. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for bathing or bathing is called other than safe or drinking water, and is sometimes called clean water, or "safe bathing water". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine and bathing water pollution). Bath water can be maintained in a favorable microbiological state by using disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water treatment is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be used for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, surrounded by natural hydrology, but the pressure to achieve it comes from its natural distribution in space and time, the increasing economic needs of agriculture and industry, and the growth of the population. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to clean, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set a water millennium goal to reduce by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and sanitation are deadly; about five million people die each year from water-borne diseases. According to the World Health Organization, clean water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths every year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal water is still processed in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, about one-third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of them withdraw more water each year than is compensated through natural resources. Flooding not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also damages groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Most water use is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawals are for irrigation, but the majority of water that is "used" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built large water systems to collect, purify, and supply water, and remove wastewater. But economic, demographic, and climate pressures are increasing on water issues, leading to increased competition for clean water resources, giving rise to the concept of clean water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry animals increases, and new demands for fossil fuels or new water-intensive industries arise, water problems are likely. The Agricultural Water Management Assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to assess whether the world has enough water to feed its growing population. He examined water availability for agriculture around the world and identified areas with water shortages. He pointed out that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-scarce areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically disadvantaged areas, where lack of investment in water resources or insufficient human capacity prevent water supply from the authorities. The report found that it is possible that there will be food demand in the future, but that the continuation of current food production and the environment will cause problems in many parts of the world. To avoid global water shortages, farmers must strive to increase production to meet food needs, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-based products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—equivalent to jans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is used in areas that are already water-scarce. Environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton largely led to the loss of the Aral Sea. As a scientific field
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the total weight of pure water equal to a cubic meter of one hundred and one meters, and at the temperature of ice". For practical purposes, however, the metal used was required, a thousand times larger, the kilogram. So the work was responsible for accurately determining the mass of one liter of water. Although the defined definition of the gram indicated water at 0 ° C (32 °F) - the most common temperature - scientists chose to interpret the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of most water, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature of the SI system was based on the three points of water, which is best defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant The scale is an absolute measure of heat and temperature rise in Celsius, previously defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water is composed mainly of hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16 isotopes oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) is a very small percentage, but it still affects the quality of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain heavier isotopes than seawater
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The American Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact number depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are ingested through food or drink other than drinking plain water. The medical literature advocates consuming less, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than they need while exercising, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. Many people say that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" which seems to have no basis in science. Studies have shown that extra fluid intake, especially 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with meals, has been associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent dehydration. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Service of the United States of America Research Council stated: "The usual amount for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of it is contained in processed foods." The most recent report of the National Research Council's Dietary Guidelines for Americans generally recommends, based on the average water intake from the United States survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; In particular, pregnant and lactating women need more water to The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should take in 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), because It has also been found that about 20% of water comes from drinking water (caffeine) in the body, through sweating, and breathing They need water that contains metals and lead, and harmful bacteria, such as E. coli and Vibrio. The biggest source of water is Lake Baikal
Transportation
Medicines used
Water is commonly used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and rarely as a solution or catalyst. In neutral behavior, water is a natural solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and other substances closely related to water. In organic solutions, it is rarely used as a reaction solution, because it does not dissolve well and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, the acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction in water was observed. Rare waters have recently become the subject of research. Oxygenated water is saturated with excess water that burns the waste very well. Heat exchange
Water and steam are the most commonly used fluids for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can also be found naturally in lakes or oceans. It is very efficient at transporting heat through evaporation and collecting water due to its latent heat of evaporation. The downside is that commonly found industrial metals such as steel and copper oxidize quickly with untreated water and sewage. In almost all power stations, water is used as working water (used in a closed loop between the boiler, turbine, and condenser), and coolant (used to exchange waste heat in a body of water or transport it to air in a cooling tower). In the United States, refrigeration is the largest consumer of water. In nuclear power plants, water can also be used as a model for neutrons. In most nuclear metals, water is cold and conductive. This provides an element of passive safety, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is preferred that the nuclear weapons are covered with water to ensure sufficient cooling. Thoughts of fire
Water has a high thermal conductivity and is inert, making it a good fire extinguishing agent. The change in water transports heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires that contain oil and organic acids because many organic materials float on the surface of the water and water tends to spread the flammable liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the risk of water explosion, which can occur when water is used in a very hot fire in a confined space, as well as hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or coke graphite, decompose water, producing water gases. The power of the explosion was evident in the Chernobyl accident, although the water involved in this case was not from fire fighting but from the water cooling system. The explosion occurred when the high temperature inside caused the water to flow. The hydrogen bomb may have been caused by a reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earths, generate too much heat with water to cause a fire hazard. Fast alkaline earth, also known as calcium oxide, is a highly manufactured substance that is often carried in paper bags. If this is installed, it can burn as the contents absorb water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational activities, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, swimming and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and have fun. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, fun, and companionship. People also use water in snow sports, such as skiing, snowboarding, snowmobiling, or snowmobiling, which require the water to be at low temperatures either as ice or filtered through ice. Water industry
The water industry supplies drinking water and wastewater (including wastewater treatment) to homes and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply pipes, and water treatment facilities, water reservoirs, water towers, water pipes including sewers. Solar power is in development. Drinking water is collected from springs, extracted from underground reservoirs (wells), or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in a sufficient area is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the water can provide enough flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can result in the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microorganisms. The preferred method is sand filtration which removes only the insoluble material, while chlorine and boiling kill harmful microorganisms. Distillation does all three functions. Advanced techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination is a cost-effective solution for dry climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, supply tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no cost. Reducing consumption by using potable (drinking) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to preserve clean water resources. Contaminated water can be a major cause of water misuse; so that pollution reduces the alternative use of water, which becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the harmful benefits. As with other types of contamination, these are not included in the standard accounting of market prices, and are considered external factors that the market cannot account for. This is why other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the people who are affected by the pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in water bodies and can have negative effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they cannot be degraded. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually processed in water treatment plants. Waste reduction is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial application
Many chemical industries rely on the use of chemicals dissolved in water, suspending particles in water or using water for dissolving and extracting substances, or cleaning products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical extraction, steaming, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and refrigeration use a lot of water, require a dedicated source, and often produce large amounts of pollution. Water is used for electricity. Hydroelectricity is the electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Electricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water from the lake is forced through turbines that convert electricity. High pressure water is used for water blasting and water cutting. A high pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It is efficient, safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used to cool machines to prevent overheating, or to protect hot metal parts. Water is also used in many mechanical and industrial processes, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical treatment. Discharge of treated water used in industry is a pollutant. Wastewater includes sewage (chemical waste) and cold water (thermal waste). Industries require clean water for many purposes and use a variety of cleaning methods for both water supply and discharge. The digital world, especially artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI could "disrupt global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and grilling are popular cooking methods that involve immersing food in liquid or gaseous forms, such as oil. Water is also used to wash utensils. Water also plays an important role in food science. Chemicals such as salt and sugar present in water affect the quality of water. The boiling point and freezing point of the solution, as well as the air pressure, also affect the altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures and lower air pressures at higher altitudes. One unit of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51°C (0.918°F), and one unit of sodium per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02°C (1.836°F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles decreases the freezing point of the water. Chemicals in water can also affect water processes affecting many chemicals and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water to the vapor pressure of pure water. Remedy for low water activity – this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity levels. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and storage of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using chemical exchange methods. It can have a significant impact on product quality, as well as contributing to cleanliness. Water hardness is determined based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as easy if it contains mg/L (UK) less than 100 mg/L (US). According to a report released by the Water Resources Association in 2010, one pound of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 gal of water); however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and trends reflect the amount of water used to produce beef. Medical use
The infusion is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. It is widespread in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe was created as a byproduct of stars. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When these outflows eventually impact the surrounding gas, shock waves are created that compress and heat the gas. Water is observed to form rapidly in this saturated gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "more than 140 billion cubic meters of water compared to all of Earth's oceans combined" near a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has dominated the universe for almost all of its existence". Water appeared in the clouds in the middle of the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies, too, because its constituents, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on the model of formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, many other systems may have similar properties. Water vapor
Water exists as air in:

Solar System: in the visible form
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and most of the water in Mercury's exosphere
Venusian atmosphere: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: 40.40% above full atmosphere, usually 1-4% higher
Lunar weather: in abundance
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The sky of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in graphics only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - in graphics only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - on average less than 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deep space
Extrasolar planets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Bright skies: not limited to cold stars but also seen in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disk: includes stars more than half of T Tauri such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279 + 5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Water is found on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes found in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is found on Saturn's moon Enceladus, such as a 10-kilometer-long ocean about 30-40 miles south of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa features a surface that suggests a subsurface ocean. Liquid water can also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between thick ice and rock. Liquid water
Water is available as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth System - The Moon mainly as ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA announced the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon's Mineralogy Mapper aboard India's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of planets and above the moons of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
The stars are associated with the Kuiper belt and the Oort cloud
And maybe also to:

Column of Mercury
Tethys

A unique style
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the inner atmosphere of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deep layers may be in the form of ionic water where the molecules are a soup of hydrogen and oxygen, and deep still as liquid water where the oxygen is mixed, but the hydrogen ions float on the surface of the void in the oxygen lattice. Water and planets
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent gaseous and solid states, on Earth is essential to life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or further away from the sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three of these conditions to occur at the same time would not be possible. Earth's size also plays a role: its weight causes it to hold the atmosphere, including atmospheric moisture. A small planet like Mars has a very thin atmosphere or no atmosphere at all. Water vapor and other gases that form the atmosphere (steam temperature) help maintain a constant surface temperature when present in large quantities. The composition of water on the planet depends on the atmospheric pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the Earth. If the planet is large enough, water on it can solidify even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed for the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Laws, policies, and issues
Water policy is a policy focused on water and water resources. Water, especially clean water, is a strategic resource around the world and a key factor in many political conflicts. It affects health and destroys ecosystems. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past few decades in almost all parts of the world, but about 1 billion people still have no access to clean water and over 2.5 billion people do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers predict that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be at risk of water damage. A report published in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people had access to clean water as of 1990. The percentage of people in developing countries with access to clean water rose from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there enough water for everyone", but achieving it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives aimed at improving the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Delivery, have not been as well received by donors in the water sector as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on trans-projects and recipient governments unable to act. The authors of the 2007 Global Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture identified poor management as one of the causes of water scarcity. Water governance is a system of formal and informal processes through which water management decisions are made. Good water management is essentially about identifying the most effective way for a given social and economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply 'design' that works in developed countries to developing countries. The Mekong River is one example; A study conducted by the International Water Management Agency in six countries based on the Mekong River watershed has shown that cost-benefit analysis and transparent environmental impact assessment are rarely carried out. They also found Cambodia's water bill to be more complicated than it should have been. In 2004, the British NGO WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-borne diseases, often caused by poor sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided policymakers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. According to the 2023 report, two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to adequate sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as an epidemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. According to the report, 10% of the world's population lives in countries with severe or severe water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the north-central region has increased by 2.5%. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and 650 million. Organizations interested in protecting water include the International Water Association (IWA), Water Resources, Water 1, and the American Water Association. The International Institute for Water Management projects projects to use water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. International Water Day is on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the "Water Crisis" as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, and 4 billion people face water shortages at least once a month. per year, and the drought cost $307 billion per year. He advocated a policy based on reality rather than on past principles. In culture
Religion
Water is considered pure in many religions. Beliefs that involve ritual washing (bathing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is the main sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is part of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikva) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, ritual bathing in holy water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to cleanse a person or place (for example, in the ritual of washing). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places, and things, or as a means of repelling evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four primordial elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as the ylem, or basic element of the universe. Thales, Aristotle's noted astronomer and engineer, argued that the earth, filled with water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The concept of the four humors of the body is related to water and phlegm, such as cold and dampness. The primal element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some well-known Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says: "The supreme beauty is like that of water. The beauty of water is seen in all its benefits, and in conquering it, without striving (contrary), in a few places that everyone dislikes. That is why (its path) is close to (that of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is lighter and weaker than water, and yet because of its attack on strong and powerful things nothing can take hold its position - because nothing (would affect) can change." Guanzi in the "Shui di" part continues to refer to the water sign "people say that" the nature of the local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of raising the dead. Look at the Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the two Russians of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth symbolizes the concept of a magical water that is said to be anti-aging. Art and struggle
In the great modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not "a single line of truth", but rather, its phrases, like their theme, "flow and flow, burst and swell, gather and break, until it sinks into the stillness of the plague, the water of dead flowers, the roofs that have stopped last month." critic Hugh Kenner, achieves the "impossible task of elevating poetry from the jumble of footnotes collected from school textbooks." The literary form of water reflects the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life," and the song represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the full version of the song. What's in the water Bloom, the water pump, the water pump, the truck returned to the range, appreciated? Being universal: the democratic balance and constant in its nature in finding its level: its abundance in the Proctor Sea of Mercator: its impure abundance in the Sundam hole of the Pacific exceeding 8000 parts: the incommensurability of its boundaries: the states of the ocean: its hydrostatic quiescence: its hydrokinetic turgidity in freshwater and rain: its reduction after collapse: its sterility in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: it has 3 to 1 place on the world's dry land: the undisputed leader connecting most of the most tropical regions of its first basin: its luteofulvous beds: its ability to melt and hold in solution all dissolved substances including millions of tons of precious metals: its slow erosion alluvial deposits: its weight and size and its density: its color and moisture of fire: the share of the great lakes and the rivers that flow to the sea and its rivers and transoceanic rivers: the course of the gulf, the course of the north and the south: its violence in the sea, water banks, artesian wells, explosions, streams, eddies, freshets, spates, land house, water, water, water, water, deluges, clouds: a great horizontal line circling the earth: its secret in springs, and secret moisture, indicated by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and indicated by the well and the hole in the wall at the gate of Ashtown, filling the air, separating the dew: part of it composed of hydrogen: part of it composed of hydrogen: part of it hydrogen The Dead Sea: its patience in the rivers, streams, inadequate dams, shipwrecks: its purifying properties, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: unfathomable as paradise and paragon: its metamorphosis as wind, clouds, mist, rain, snow, ice, snow: its power in heavy rains and heavy water. lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and mines and rivers and arms of the sea: its strength in ice, ice, icefloes: its skill in hydraulic power plants, turbines, dynamos, power stations, working machines, tanneries, scutchmills: its usefulness in rivers, streams or watercourses that decrease from level to level: aquatic animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) in numbers, if not normally, the inhabitants of the world: everywhere as being 90% of the human body: the toxicity of its effluvia in lacustrine swamps, fensile pestilents fensan, pisine pileile funcion, pisine pestilentile, fensile piesile fensile, fensile pisile. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster edited The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which created a year-round program with the Cathedral due to our reliance on water. The largest exhibition ever held at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, Mata Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. The educator created Think Water, an environmental group of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation declared by the United Nations Human Rights, the humanitarian organization WaterAid has commissioned ten artists to create videos to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of falsehoods and slanders against the illiterate. This began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake news included safety concerns about the product. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Document
Take a look
Assignments are submitted
Further reading
External link

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Chronology: The Water Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
USGS
A link to World Bank strategies, works and publications related to water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on site
Water features and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association of Water and Power Resources Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary