Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which largely contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known forms of life, although it does not provide energy for food or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide distribution, and its strong polarity given its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water on Earth exists as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. If finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapour. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for the majority of water (about 96.5%). Small proportions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (composed of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water constantly moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff and usually reaches the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans is used for agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be the main source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, a suffixed form of the root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also related to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Old Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from which English 'hydro-'), Russian vodá (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją, based on an Indo-European root. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, the liquid is tasteless and odorless, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": water, as found in nature, actually almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. countries
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; the liquid phase is also H2O. The other two common states of matter for water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does this in a liquid state. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in this regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of the water decreases. When it freezes to become ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits normal shrinkage and density as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface that floats on liquid water. This ice insulates the water below and prevents it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would die in winter. In addition, this unusual behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat throughout the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve appreciable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into steam by evaporation at its surface (evaporation throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost deposits on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by depositing on aerosol particles or ice cores. In the freeze-drying process, the food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron equation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              p
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    in
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    in
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          in
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          in
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances increase in volume when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick amounts of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1524 meters (5000 ft), the cooking time should be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, you can use a pressure cooker to reduce cooking time by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point, called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to determine the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/steam phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gas- and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of external water) are sensitive to density. For example, at appropriate pressures and temperatures, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed, and more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When ice is compressed between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as water without taste or smell, although humans have special sensors that detect the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs can smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess drinking water and avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the c range. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool, where the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, as the greater intensity of the lower tones of water means that short-path glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the materials commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent because it dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter of which causes the fizz of fizzy drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its extremely high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Hydrogen bonds in water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O–H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, an estimated 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillarity refers to the tendency of water to move through a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this feature. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH− combined with solvation of the hydronium and hydroxide ions formed. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by dissolving a small amount of an ionic material such as table salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released in the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility under normal conditions ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by whales and dolphins and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water on Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are at the heart of ecohydrology. The total mass of water located on, below and above the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate amount of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or pond. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor state. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fracture patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on the earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water circulation
The water cycle (scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the constant exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water continuously moves through each of these areas in a water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation due to water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as outflow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute an additional 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, which amounts to 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: most often rain, snow and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor hits a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is at its lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight and cause rainbows. Water runoff is often collected across watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the formation of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences a lack of water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below-average rainfall either because of its topography or its location relative to latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural sources of water that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water appears as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the world's total fresh water is stored in glaciers and permanent snowpack; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and living organisms. The amount of time that water remains in storage varies widely: some aquifers consist of water that has been stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate with the seasons, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet ones. A significant portion of the water supply in some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in reservoirs, and as withdrawals exceed recharge, reserves are depleted. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater abstraction, which causes groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains on average about 3.5% sodium chloride and smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to freezing, rather than reaching its maximum density at a temperature above freezing. Water salinity in the larger seas ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity level of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce fluctuating currents known as tides. The changing tides produced at a particular location are the result of the changing position of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are essential for the spread of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately enable replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve, and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (using energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to make larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy, transforming water and CO2 (cellular respiration). Water is also essential for acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor, such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7, while bases have values higher than 7. Water forms of life
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water and there are many species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as seaweed and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must occasionally come to the surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of modifications for survival in low-oxygen waters, including breathing tubes (see Insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization in aquatic respiration. Effects on Human Civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was entirely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed down from the Himalayas. Even Rome was founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Great metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports like Singapore flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to provide safe water for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water annually. Every year, 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is generated worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource that returns to the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it are a result of its natural uneven distribution in space and time, the increasing economic needs of agriculture and industry, and a growing population. Currently, almost one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Water Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water would prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of these extract more water annually than they replenish in their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
Most water is consumed by humans in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which represents as much as 80 to 90 percent of the total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of "used" water (used rather than returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, treat and deliver water and dispose of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for permanent water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water consumption by hungry meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries rise, new water challenges are likely. In 2007, the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka conducted an assessment of water management in agriculture to determine whether the world has enough water to feed a growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and outlined locations suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water for all needs. A further 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where authorities are unable to meet water demand due to lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity. The report notes that it may be possible to produce the necessary food in the future, but a continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to work to increase productivity to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water shortage is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton, equivalent to a pair of jeans, requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage has been caused: for example, the diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production by the former Soviet Union has largely caused the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice." For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was needed. Therefore, they ordered an accurate determination of the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the established definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists decided to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the maximum density of water, which at the time was measured to be 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is instead based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same step as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mainly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes usually contains less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Medium Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although an individual can be between 45% and 75%. The US National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is consumed through food or drink, except for drinking plain water. Medical literature supports lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) per meal, has been associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945, issued by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council, read: "The usual standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount comes from prepared foods." The latest Dietary Reference Intakes report issued by the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including dietary sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, stating that water in food provides about 19% of total water intake in the study. Specifically, pregnant women and nursing mothers need extra fluids to stay hydrated. On average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal). 3 liters (12 cups) is lost during breastfeeding. It has also been found that approximately 20% of water is consumed through drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in several forms, through sweating and through exhalation of water vapor. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss increases can increase. Common impurities such as copper and lead; and harmful bacteria such as E. coli and Vibrio. The largest source (by volume) of drinking water is Lake Baikal
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is often used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent because it poorly dissolves the reactants and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these features are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water was also observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. Due to the high latent heat of vaporization, it is particularly efficient to transfer heat through the evaporation and condensation of water. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly with raw water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and a cooling fluid (used to exchange waste heat into a body of water or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the US, the largest water consumption is used by cooling plants. In nuclear power, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a sort of passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction, and it is desirable that the nuclear core be covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire Considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. Evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water spreads the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the danger of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot indoor fires, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon, such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water to form water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl accident, although in this case the water did not come from extinguishing the fire, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when, due to the extreme overheating of the core, the water turned into steam in a flash. The hydrogen explosion may have resulted from a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali and alkaline earth metal oxides, produce so much heat when they react with water that a fire can occur. Alkaline earth quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If soaked, they can catch fire as their contents react with water. Recreation
Man uses water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and look of running water to be soothing, and fountains and other running water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, entertainment and socializing. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the cold water to be either ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) for households and industry. Water supply facilities are wells, rainwater collection tanks, water supply networks and treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water supply systems including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected from springs, obtained from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right places is thus a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. The water may require treatment for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. The distribution of drinking water takes place via municipal water supply systems, cisterns or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using potable (drinking) water only for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution may be the greatest single abuse of water; to the extent that the pollutant restricts other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this is not included in standard market costing as it is conceived as an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population who are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceutical products consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic organisms if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial waste water is usually treated at treatment plants. Reduction of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes are based on reactions that use chemicals dissolved in water, suspend solids in an aqueous slurry, or use water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulp production, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large quantities of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from water energy. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectric power is a cheap, non-polluting renewable energy source. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river and an artificial lake is created behind it. Water flowing from the lake flows through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI "may threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and stewing are popular cooking methods that often require immersion of food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in food science. Dissolves such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling point and freezing point of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); a similar increase in the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio between the vapor pressure of water in solution and the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality and play an important role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published in 2010 by the organization Water Footprint, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also explain that this is a global average and that indirect factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In space
Much of the water in space is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. As this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water forms rapidly in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a huge cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has dominated the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. According to models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems probably have similar components. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's Atmosphere: In Perceptible Traces
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the total atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: traceable
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - in traces below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: Not limited to cooler stars and detected even in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cepheus, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Taurus stars, such as AA Taurus, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Running water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small quantities on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on Saturn's moons Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rocks. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon System: Mostly as ice sheets on Earth and in the Moon's craters and volcanic rocks. In September 2009, NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And is probably also present on:

The poles of Mercury
Thetis

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles likely make up much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and water in deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, in which the molecules disintegrate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms on Earth is crucial to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), it would be much less likely that the conditions would exist that allow the three forms to be present at the same time. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin atmospheres or none at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively steady surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the external pressure determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure exerted by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy that is influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report released in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, in some regions of the developing world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report states that there is "enough water for all", but access to it is hampered by poor governance and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects, leaving recipient governments without the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing the processes that work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; The International Water Management Institute's review of policies in six Mekong water-supplying countries found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law is much more complicated than it should be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from water-related diseases, which are easily preventable and often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water scarcity. Nevertheless, water use has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management undertakes projects to use effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22, and World Oceans Day is celebrated on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the Great Lakes have declined since 1990, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, 4 billion people face water shortages for at least one month a year, and droughts cost $307 billion a year. She called for policies that match reality and not past norms. In culture
faith
Water is considered a cleansing agent in most religions. Beliefs that involve ritual washing (washing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or smearing or dousing) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (Mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can in most cases be performed after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (e.g. in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that a priest has consecrated for baptism, the blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and regarded it as the ylem or basic substance of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, was formed from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as it was cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (alongside earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says: "The highest excellence is like (that) water. The excellence of water is shown in that it benefits all things, and that it occupies, without striving (to the contrary), a low place, disliked by all men. Therefore (its path) is close to (that of) Tao" and "Nothing in the world is softer and weaker than water, but for attacking things that are solid and strong, there is nothing that can take precedence over it - for there is nothing (so effective) that can make it change." In the chapter "Shui di" 水地, Guanzi further discusses the symbolism of water, declaring that "man is water" and attributing the natural characteristics of the people of various regions of China to the character of local water sources. Folklore
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic fairy tales as a means of reviving the dead. Consider the Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The fountain of youth represents a related concept of magical waters that supposedly prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism with 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely "a monotonous string of facts," but its sentences, like their theme, "ebb and flow, rise and rise, gather and break, until they settle into the peaceful repose of the concluding 'curious moors, faded flower waters, stagnant pools in the waning moon.'" The hymn is considered one of the finest passages in Ithaca and, according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "an incredible feat of elevating into poetry all the jumble of information that has accumulated in school textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life", and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. The following is the quoted hymn in its entirety. What did Bloom, the water lover, the water painter, the water carrier returning to the area, admire in the water? Its universality: its democratic equality and consistency to its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projections: its unusual depth in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific, exceeding 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles which successively visit all points of its coast: the independence of its units: the variability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic rest in a calm state: its hydrokinetic firmness in the tides and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice-caps, in the Arctic and Antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3 to 1 dominance over the dry part of the world: its undisputed hegemony, extending in square leagues over the entire region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its original basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and retain in solutions of all soluble matter, including millions of tons of the noblest metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and falling down headlands: its alluvial deposits: its weight, volume and density: its impassability in lagoons and highland tarns: its gradation of colors in hot, temperate and cold regions: its traffic ramifications in inland lakes contained by streams and confluent oceanic rivers with tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf current, north and south equatorial currents: violence in sea earthquakes, water plumes, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, fresh waters, waves, ground waves, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast extraterrestrial horizontal curve: its secret in springs and latent humidity, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments, and exemplified by a well by a hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate, saturation of the air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two components of hydrogen with one component of oxygen: its medicinal properties: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetration of canals, gutters, inadequate dams, leaks in ships: its purifying, thirst- and fire-quenching properties, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and example: its metamorphoses as vapour, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes, inlets and gulfs and gulfs and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minnows and tidal estuaries and sea arms: its firmness in glaciers, icebergs, ice-floes: its obedience in working hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleachers, tanneries, mills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and rough docks: its potential derived from the harnessed tides and water currents falling from level to level: its undersea fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: its ubiquity, as it consists 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its outflows into lake swamps, pestilential swamps, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water at St. John the Divine in New York, which was the basis of the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever mounted in the cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of pranks and hoaxes mocking scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983 when the first April article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story was made up of concerns about the safety of the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Going even further, some rappers have recorded entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Listed works
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
Chronology of Water Conflicts: A Database of Water Conflicts Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water (USGS)
A portal to the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and related publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water online
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary