Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of the earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When it is finely divided, crystalline ice can fall out in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small portions of the water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff and usually reaches the ocean. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, an important source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by boat through oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boats, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod or "wet" form of wet or "wet". Also related, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On earth
Characteristics
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water found in nature almost always contains various solutes, and special measures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. states
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter in water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so in liquid form. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface that floats on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would perish during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a remarkable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). But even below the boiling point, water can change to steam at its surface through evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also take place on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. During the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface is sublimated. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of the melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of liquid and solid phase, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. But because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point drops by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet) the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) there are curves that separate solid from steam, steam from liquid and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When ice is sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it varying tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to evaluate the drinkability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visible blue due to absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are harmonics of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool as the light source is sunlight reflected from the pool's white tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of the lower harmonics of water allows short path length glass cuvettes to be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is needed. In addition, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5° angle with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter providing the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonding of the water bonds is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, 90% is estimated to be attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by whales and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, below and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth's approximate water volume (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. The majority of water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is found in most rock types, and the pressure from this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes at subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. Deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water constantly moves through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the earth or sea. runoff from land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but winds transport water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the ocean, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring in land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is at its lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the Earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often accumulates over watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment and creates river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low lying, is covered with water which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is an extended period of months or years when a region notices a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average rainfall either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural resources of water that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs both as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, as well as ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is found in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage varies widely: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant portion of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in reservoirs, and as withdrawal exceeds replenishment, reservoirs are depleted. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in larger oceans varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity of between 30 and 40%, is indeed a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the moon and sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine waters and produce oscillating currents called tidal currents. The changing tides produced at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The strip of beach that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of seawater. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are essential for the spread of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known life forms depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which many of the body's dissolved substances are dissolved and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg starch, triglycerides and proteins for storing fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg glucose, fatty acids and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values lower than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface water is filled with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some kinds of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the foundation of the ocean's food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in different ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals, must come to the surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated water, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and large bodies of water; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and tributaries flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their ease of access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is referred to by names other than drinking water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 parts per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Water for bathing can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce nations, meaning each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, which is recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressure on its availability is a result of its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and increasing populations. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the UN established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal was uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to meeting the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water can prevent 1.4 million children dying from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from medium or high water scarcity, and 17 of these extract more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycle. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but it also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most significant human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for as much as 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the US, 42% of the freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and deliver water and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, the consumption of water-thirsty meat increases and new demands increase for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, it is likely that new water challenges will become relevant. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped places suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where the lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet the demand for water. The report stated that it would be possible to produce the food required in the future, but that a continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water shortages are also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton – the equivalent of a pair of jeans – requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, however, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was required. Work was therefore commissioned to accurately determine the mass of a liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram indicated water at 0 °C (32 °F) – a very reproducible temperature – the researchers chose to redefine the standard and to perform their measurements at the temperature of highest water density, which at the time was measured to be 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale for the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there is also a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The proportion of the heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of the water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking pure water. Medical literature advocates a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding extra needs due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary when exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) with meals, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board in the U.S. The National Research Council stated: "A common standard for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in convenience foods." The latest Dietary Reference Intakes report from the U.S. The National Research Council generally recommended, based on the total median water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal; 0.71 US gal) of water totaling 1% water of total water for women. intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and nursing women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in several forms; through urine and faeces, through perspiration and through the exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with few contaminants. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and to provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Laundry
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is often used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, as it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these characteristics are sometimes desirable. In addition, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Oxygenated supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam is a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available from a lake or ocean. It is particularly efficient at transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and the cooling fluid (used to exchange the waste heat to a body of water or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest use of water. In the nuclear industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop a reaction and it is preferred to keep the core core covered with water to ensure sufficient cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the risks of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coking graphite, break down the gas and produce the water. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water did not come from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when the extreme overheating of the core caused water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. The alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can ignite as the contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Seasides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many people find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. The water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including ancient aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected at springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in suitable places is thus a possible way to produce more water, provided the aquifers can provide a sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. It can be about the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water takes place through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need at no cost. Reducing use by using only potable (drinking) water for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets across the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the single greatest abuse of water; to the extent that pollution limits other uses of the water, it is a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this is not included in standard reporting of market costs, as it is perceived as externalities that the market cannot take into account. Thus, other people pay the price for water pollution, while the profits of the private companies are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated at sewage treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is managed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions with chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in aqueous sludge, or the use of water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in electricity production. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydropower comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. The energy is supplied through the movement of the water. Usually a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn on generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating or prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as the steam turbine and the heat exchanger, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollutants include discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses large amounts of water, so AI expansion could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in food science. Dissolved substances such as salts and sugars present in water affect the physical properties of the water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as is air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Likewise, an increase in the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio between the vapor pressure of water in a solution and the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water lower water activity – this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; but the authors also clarify that this is a global average and circumstances determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. As this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The water observed is rapidly produced in this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies as well, since its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in traceable amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ices only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – only in ices; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar discs: including those from more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes found in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest an ocean of liquid water beneath the surface. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And is likely also present at:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably make up much of the inner structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water where the oxygen is crystallized, but the hydrogen ions float freely around the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the solar system; if it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time would be much less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively even surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is policy that is affected by water and water resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damages biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved in recent decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to clean water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, issued in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report says there is enough water for all. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid delivery effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by water sector donors as effectively as they have been in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the authority to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cited poor governance as a cause of some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a certain physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply "blueprints" that work in the developed world to places and contexts in the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's proposed water law was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN's World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has given decision-makers tools to develop a sustainable water policy. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safe sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Nevertheless, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the UN Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered an era of "water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-insecure countries, to at least 4 billion people in water, 4 billion people have cost 4 billion years. 307 billion dollars per year. It called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In the culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Beliefs that include ritual washing (the washing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is unavailable (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (eg in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as a ylem or fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and an engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from the water. Thales, a monist, further believed that everything is made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm, as cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water is manifest in that it benefits all things, and that it occupies, without striving (to the contrary), the low place which all men dislike. Therefore (its path) is close to (that of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are firm and strong there is nothing that can take precedence over it - for there is nothing (so effective) that it can be changed for." Guanzi in "Shui di" says the chapter on water, which passes on the symbol of the water. and to attribute natural characteristics of the people of different Chinese regions to the nature of local water resources
"Living water" is found in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water psalm". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply a "monotonous series of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject matter, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and burst, until they sink into the calm stillness of the closing 'pestilential marshes, the waters of faded flowers in the stagnant pool of the hymn' considered the most stagnant pool." remarkable pieces in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the improbable feat of elevating to poetry all the clutter of footling information that has accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life", and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The following is the Psalm quoted in its entirety. What in the water did Bloom admire, water-lover, water-drawer, water-carrier returning to the field? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its deep depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeding 8,000 surface and its restless surface with 8,000 turning all points on the coast: the independence of its units: the changeability of sea states: its hydrostatic stillness in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in distress and spring water: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice sheets, arctic and antarctic: its predominant climate and commercial land: its predominant climate and predominance of 3 countries over land: the globe: its undisputed hegemony extending in square leagues over the entire region below the subequatorial Tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble matter including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosions of the peninsulas: its slow erosions and downward protrusions: and volume and density: its steadfastness in lagoons and highland stars: its gradation of colors in the hot and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular ramifications in continental lakes enclosed currents and confluent sea-flowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf currents, southern and southern sea artesian wells, eruptions, currents, eddies, currents, geysers, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, maelstroms, floods, inundations, cloudbursts: its vast horizontal curve around the earth: its secret in springs and revealed by humidity or hygrometric instruments exemplified by the well at the hole in the wall at Ashtown gate, air saturation, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituents of hydrogen with one constituent of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetrability in runnels, ponds, for its flowing qualities: quenches thirst and fire, nourishes vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and model: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in rigid hydrants: its diversity of forms in lodges and bays and bays and bays and guts and entrails and lagoons and fjords and fjords and fjords, tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice-floes: its docility in working hydraulic mill-wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleachers, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and utilization of water that may end up in water levels from harbors: level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the earth: its prevalence constituting 90% of the human body: the harmfulness of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential marshes, faded flower waters in the stagnant pools. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring a year-long cathedral initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever shown in the cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the United Nations, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show how clean water affects people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story consisted of security concerns surrounding the subject. Music
The word "water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Going even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to the waters of Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

World water data site
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and associated publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water online
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The chemistry of water Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary