Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main part of the Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living things, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. They are essential to all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being active nutrients. Due to its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the three components of water, water exists on Earth as solid, liquid and gas. It creates precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid state. If finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the ice and glaciers of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (including ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water constantly moves through the water cycle of evaporation, evaporation (evaporation), infiltration, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, the main source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is transported by boat across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in factories and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for various types of substances, mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also the center of many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, skiing, and snowboarding. Etymology
The word water is derived from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-form' *wod- or suffid of,' water It also corresponds, through the Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vạj. History
In the world
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue taste. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "former of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always consists of various dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only natural substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal terrestrial conditions. Nations
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and condensation (steam to ice). Congestion
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so in liquid form. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes much less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can produce high pressures, burst pipes and rupturing rocks. As a solid, it shows a normal tendency to contract and become thicker as it cools. These common thermal characteristics have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, the 4 °C (39 °F) water sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, many aquatic organisms living in the lakes may perish during the winter. In addition, this unusual behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with strong conducting magnets you can get significant interactions. Phase change
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam freezes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (vapor in a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, ice is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on its surface melts. The melting and boiling point depends on the pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature and pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 is the molar volume of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the temperature of melting increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficient ice volume, resulting in lakes under the ice. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but for the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a gorge in Yellowstone National Park. In geothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100°C (212°F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by four to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three important points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see diagram), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The third stage is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as a critical step. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called superfluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including more organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The most common type of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms hexagonally symmetrical crystals. Another symmetrical cubic crystal, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several others are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, the ice phase centered on the surface-center of volume, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a complex structure of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The chemical nature of liquid water is not well understood; some theories show that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two states of water. Taste and smell
Fresh water is usually described as having no taste or smell, although humans have special sensors that can detect the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to have a sense of smell. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually contains a lot of dissolved substances that can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to assess the potential of water to avoid salty or polluted water. Color and appearance
Clear water appears blue due to the absorption of light in that region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water set against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the source of light is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended matter or algae. In industry, near-infrared imaging is used with aqueous solutions as the greater sharpness of the lower tones of water means that glasses with shorter path lengths can be used. To study the fundamental absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one material that is commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The fundamental vibrations used by Raman can be observed for, for example, a 1 cm cell sample. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), glycerin (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and ordinary glass (1.6). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are located near two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Some substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a relatively negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are relatively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving most salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter producing carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. Interactions between water and the components of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other events important to life (hydrophobic effect). Most organic substances (such as oils and fats and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including many iron oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than those of other compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in controlling the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the ocean and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bond strength of water is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O-H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of these, it is estimated that 90% is electrostatic, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is shared by all vascular plants, such as trees. Pretend ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydroxide hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-, as well as a solvent for hydrogen and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by the dissolution of small amounts of ionic materials such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into its components hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical property
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its pressure is between 4.4 and 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 in standard conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers a decrease of only 1.8% in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 const at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property that is used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more positive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the world. The study of water supply is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of underground water is hydrogeology, of ice is glaciology, of internal water is limnology and the distribution of seas is oceanography. Ecological and hydrological processes are in the direction of ecohydrology. The collection of water found on, below, and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The estimated amount of water in the world (total world water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. Most of the water in the world is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It is also found as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault systems. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in the lower regions. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still greater extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediments creates many types of sandstone, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, ground water, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these areas in a water cycle that includes the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and evaporation from land plants and animals into the atmosphere. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the sky and falling to the ground or sea. water that flows from the ground usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the sea returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over the land at the same rate as the water flow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and evaporation from land also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, is of several types: typically rain, snow, and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew occurs in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature of the earth begins to rise. Frozen water in the sky can also reflect sunlight to produce a rainbow. Runoff often accumulates over watersheds flowing into rivers. Through soil erosion, the flow of water creates the environment to create river basins and deltas that provide fertile soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually the ground, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or storm surges occur. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when an area experiences a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when an area consistently receives below average rainfall due to its topography or due to its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as "reservoir" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total amount of cold water in the world, an average of 69 percent is stored in ice and permanent snow covers; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere, and biota. The length of time that water remains in reservoirs varies widely: some bodies of water contain water stored for thousands of years, but the lake's volume can change seasonally, decreasing during the dry season and increasing during the rainy season. A large part of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in reservoirs, and as withdrawals increase, reservoirs decrease. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable withdrawal of groundwater, leading to a decrease in groundwater. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, along with small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum density at the temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the deep sea varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water and produce circulating currents known as currents. Changes in the tides produced in a certain area are the result of changes in the positions of the Moon and the Sun in relation to the Earth as well as the effects of the Earth's rotation and internal bathymetry. A strip of beach that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of tidal waves. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are important for the spread of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important as a solvent in which most of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., carbohydrates, triglycerides, and proteins to store fat and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as energy for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate water hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and produce hydrogen and carbon dioxide to capture solar energy and fix water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. In an acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e., a proton) can be replaced by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in ideal conditions. Acids have a pH below 7 while bases have a pH value above 7. Aquatic life forms
The surface waters of the earth are teeming with life. The first life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the foundation of underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the marine food chain. Aquatic animals must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to jump frequently to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show many adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated water including breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrates evolved in aquatic habitats, most of them have little or no ability to breathe in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilizations have historically flourished near rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called origins of civilization, was between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) began along the Indus River and the tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the consequent expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, like Singapore, have thrived for the same reason. In areas such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and environmental pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be filtered by filtration or distillation, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of chlorine still in contact with bathing water impurities). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory biological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (more commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people who live in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrogen cycle, but the pressure on its access is caused by its irregular distribution in space and time, increasing economic and agricultural and industrial needs, and increasing population. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide lack safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to clean and safe water. Progress towards that goal was uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve access to clean and safe water at an affordable price by 2030. Poor water quality and sanitation are dangerous; Five million deaths each year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90 percent of municipal wastewater remains untreated in local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also face moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water each year than is recharged through their natural water cycles. This problem not only affects fresh water sources like rivers and lakes, but also destroys underground water resources. Human consumption
Agriculture
Major human water use is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of fresh water released for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built modern water systems for collecting, purifying, and delivering water, and disposing of wastewater. But increasing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demands increase for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Institute of Water Management in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and classified areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-scarce areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. More than 1.6 billion people live in economically water-scarce areas, where lack of investment in water or poor human capacity make it difficult for authorities to meet water needs. The report found that it would be possible to produce enough food in the near future, but today's continued food production and environmental trends will lead to unrest in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase production to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of products that require water. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton takes up 2.4 percent of the world's water use, that water is used in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Great environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton led to the large-scale disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters, and to the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes though, a reference level of metals was required, one thousand times more, a kilogram. So the task was to determine the exact quantity of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the prescribed definition of the gram specified water at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - a very reproducible temperature - scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the maximum density of water, which was measured at the time as 4 ° C (39 ° F). The Kelvin temperature unit for the SI system was based on the triplet of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the standard Boltzmann scale instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same addition as the Celsius scale, which was originally defined based on the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes contains less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, normal water is defined in Vienna average sea water measurements. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gal) for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The right amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of these are ingested through food or drink rather than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors low consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to water loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no basis in science. Studies have shown that extra fluid intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The normal level for most people is 1 milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in processed foods." The latest dietary reference intake report of the US National Research Council generally recommended, based on the average total water intake from the US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US total) of water that does not contain water 19 US for women. total water in the study. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need extra water to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), since a large amount of water is lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, sweating, and by inhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily water requirements may increase as well. Humans need water that is less polluted. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solvents are acceptable and even desirable for flavor enhancement and providing needed electrolytes. The largest freshwater resource (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is commonly used in chemical reactions as a solvent or solvent and rarely as a solvent or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes useful. Also, the rate of Diels-Alder reactions with water has been considered. High quality water has recently become a topic of research. Oxygenated water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can even be obtained naturally from a lake or sea. It is very efficient at transporting heat through the steam and condensation of water because of its high latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as iron and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all fossil fuel plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and coolant (used to transfer the waste heat to the water container or carry it by melting in the cooling tower). In the United States, electric cooling plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and regulator. This provides an extreme safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are suggested to stop the effect and it is recommended to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Hot thoughts
Water has a high vapor temperature and is relatively inert, which makes it a good firefighting water. Evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic solvents because most of the organic material floats on top of the water and the water tends to saturate the burning liquid. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the risks of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very intense fires in closed areas, and hydrogen explosion, when substances that affect water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or graphite coke, separate water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from extinguishing the fire but from the water cooling system of the reactor. A steam explosion occurred when the intense heat of the core caused water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred from the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat from water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these are soaked, they may ignite when the water content reacts. Entertainment
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, snorkeling, swimming, swimming and diving. In addition, other sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on the ice. Lakeside, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in reservoirs or ponds for display, entertainment and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, snowboarding, skiing, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at low temperatures either as ice or frozen in snow. Water industry
The water sector provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, wells for harvesting rainwater, water distribution networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old canals. Hydroelectric generators in development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in sufficient areas is a possible way to produce more water, given that the water sources can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve the removal of insoluble matter, damaged matter and harmful microbes. A popular method is sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorine and boiling kill harmful microorganisms. Distillation does all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of bulk seawater is the most expensive solution used in coastal climates. The supply of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tank delivery or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no charge. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water can be the biggest waste of water; to the extent that the polluter reduces other uses of water, it is a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other forms of pollution, this does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs, being considered an externality that the market cannot account for. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local residents, the victims of this pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in waterways and can have negative effects on aquatic life if they accumulate and if they cannot be broken down. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Contaminated surface water reduction is addressed through various prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurry or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical milling, bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in the production of electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectricity. Hydropower comes from water to drive a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, as well as its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is environmental pollution. Pollution includes released solvents (chemical pollution) and released cooling water (thermal pollution). The industry requires clean water for many uses and uses various purification methods in water supply and disposal. The digital industry, especially artificial intelligence uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Solvents such as salt and sugar found in water affect the natural behavior of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at low temperatures and low air pressure that occurs at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles decreases the freezing point of water. Solvents in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solvents in water reduce water activity—this is important to know because the growth of most bacteria stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, and also play a role in environmental sanitation. Water hardness is determined by the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and environmental factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the list of essential medicines of the World Health Organization. Distribution in nature
In the world
Most of the universe's water is produced as a result of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves that are created compress and heat the gas. Concentrated water is quickly released into this densely heated gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" near a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has spread throughout the world for almost all of its existence". Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water may be abundant in other star clusters, too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, many other planetary systems are likely to have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

Solar Atmosphere: at traceable levels
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, with a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Venus Environment: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the total atmosphere, typically 1–4% above the surface
Moon's atmosphere: to a lesser extent
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The environment of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of its moon Europa
The atmosphere of Saturn - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% by Dione (below ocean surface)
The atmosphere of Uranus - with trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deep layers
Extrasolar planet environments: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cold stars and even recognized in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri with TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water also occurs in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10 km thick ocean about 30-40 km below the surface of the south pole of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under regolith and in trees. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in the Moon's craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: The face of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Stars and other objects related to the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it's also possible it's on:

Pillars of Mercury
Tethys

Foreign forms
Water and other sediments probably comprise most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deepest layers may be in the form of ionized water in which the molecules split into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superfluid in which the oxygen glows, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and the habitat of the planet
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow three species to exist at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a stable surface temperature when present in normal abundance. The state of water on the planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If the planet is large enough, the water on it can be stable even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as seen in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important factor in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past several decades in almost every part of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by the year 2025, more than half of the world's population will be facing a difficult environment caused by water. A report released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing areas of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to safe water since 1990. The number of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report states that access to water is sufficient for the United Nations. for bad leadership and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as they did in education and health, thus leaving many donors working in projects that interact with recipient governments without the empowerment to take action. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the causes of some types of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is essentially about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to use 'guidelines' that work in the developed world in developing world regions and contexts. The Mekong River is one example; A review of the International Water Management Institute's policy in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that detailed and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to inadequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been described as a disaster, due to excessive consumption and environmental pollution. The report states that 10 percent of the world's people live in countries with severe water stress or stress. However, over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the mid-northern latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management runs projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is held on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without water, 4 billion people face water shortage for 7 billion dollars per month. year. It wanted policies based on reality rather than old principles. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleanser in many religions. Beliefs that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or immersion or immersion) of a person in water is the main Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the customs of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, bathing in pure water is done for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers may be performed multiple times after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudhu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (for example, in the ritual of misogy). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been purified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of people, places and things, or as a way to ward off evil. In Zoroastria, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be the essence, or basic essence, of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made from water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body involved water and phlegm, being cold and damp. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest quality is like (that of) water. The quality of water is seen in its benefiting all things, and in its occupying, without effort (on the contrary), the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its path) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet by attacking things that are firm and strong nothing can take its place - for nothing (very effective) can be replaced." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 elaborates on the natural qualities of water, proclaiming the natural qualities of people, and proclaiming the natural qualities of water. of various Chinese regions for the behavior of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folklore as a means of raising the dead. Remember the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical water that is said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not only "a series of sublime truths", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until it settles into the final calm 'sick fences, pale flower waters, pale flower waters, many moon pools that stagnate'" are considered. extraordinary passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, he achieves "the impossible feat of elevating to poetry the mass of sequential information that has been collected in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, changing life," and the song represents the climax of the motif in the novel. Below is the song quoted in full. Bloom, the water-carrier, the water-drawer, the water-carrier returning to the column, what did he wonder? Its world: its democratic balance and the stability of its nature in finding its own level: its size in the Mercator projection sea: its depth without pipes in the Sundam canal of the Pacific exceeds 8,00 meters in length and its stability to visit all parts of its seaboard: the independence of its units: the variability of the state of the sea: its hydrostatic stability in the stability: its hydrokinetic turgidity in the solar and spring waves: its decrease after destruction: its barrenness in the ice of circumpolar, arctic and antarctic its commercial importance: the dry land of the earth: its indisputable empire extending in square leagues over the entire area below the tropic of Capricorn: the secular stability of its ancient basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious minerals and slow down: alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: immovability in the lagoons and tarns of the highlands: its color arrangement in temperate and cold regions: its motor effects in the streams of the continent with the lake and the overflowing rivers of the sea and their rivers, the northern current and the southern current of the sea earthquakes, water streams, art wells, explosions, streams, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, waterparts waterparts, gears, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, floods, cloudbursts: its great circumterrestrial circumterrestrial ahorizontal, granular springs and tent sliding: rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and shown by a well with a hole in the wall at the gate of Ashtown, the diffusion of air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its structure, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its healing properties: its blowing in the water of the Dead Sea, it flows into the water of the Sea of Salt. pools, leaks on shipboard: its purifying properties, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: its infallibility as concept and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapor, fog, cloud, rain, snow, sleet, hail: its power in strong fluids: its forms of elevations and channels. and islands and sounds and fjords and mines and rivers and seas and arms of the sea: its strength in ice, icebergs, glaciers: its simplicity in working with hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutch, river canals, aqueducts, aqueducts and aqueducts. drawing cages: its possibility arising from combined waves or currents of water falling from level to level: its underwater animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) in number, if not, the inhabitants of the earth: its prevalence as comprising 90% of the human body: its submarine destruction, aquatic water, pestrinels flowers, water clouds, pestrine flowers, clouds. stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster coordinated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which highlighted the Cathedral's year-long program on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever in the Cathedral, featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject matter. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate 10 years of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the United Nations, the charity organization WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. A parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story included safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further some rappers have made entire songs about the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Tips
References
Works mentioned
Read more
External links

World Water Statistics Page
FAO's Complete Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflicts Date: Water Conflicts Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Website of the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Thoughts, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary