Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent chemical substance, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless. It is the most important part of the Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known organisms, which act as fluids. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which plays a major role in its physical and chemical properties. It is important to all known life forms, although it is not provided with food energy or is a micronutrient in nature. Due to the presence of all living things, its chemical stability, abundance throughout the world, and strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal cell". Because of Earth's high temperature and pressure near the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and fog in the atmosphere. Clouds are composed of water droplets and ice, in its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans containing the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), ice and ice caps in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water continuously passes through the water cycle through evaporation, evapotranspiration, evaporation, precipitation, and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water that people use goes to agriculture. Salt and freshwater fisheries were, and still are, the main source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by barge through oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating industries and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of materials, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, pleasure boating, yacht racing, swimming, sport fishing, diving, skiing, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-German *watar (also source Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *bread', form 'bread-water'. Also, through the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), while English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
Earth
The houses
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic molecule. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a blue mark. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound, and is sometimes described as the "universal salt" for its ability to dissolve in more substances than other liquids, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "dissolution of life": Indeed, water as found in nature always contains various dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxygen, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (ice water), melting (water ice), evaporation (water vapor), evaporation (water vapor), sublimation (ice to vapor) and storage (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the most common substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled to a certain temperature; It is the only known naturally occurring substance that forms as a liquid. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes very small and dense when it freezes, although it is not special in terms of it. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, at which the liquid phase density is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause great pressure, burst pipes and cracked rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the normal behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. Unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) cools down, ice forms on the surface, and floats on top of the liquid water. This ice covers the water below, preventing it from freezing hard. Without these protections, most of the aquatic life in the lakes will disappear during the winter. In addition, this unusual behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with high-conducting magnets it can have a visible interaction. Transition phase
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor on its surface as it evaporates (the vapor throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces where ice forms by overlaying a layer of air or ice core. During the freeze-drying process, the food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice surface is high. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature and pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      Q
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            Q
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 is the molar volume of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. For most materials, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases the pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In ice, pressure melting can occur in large enough amounts of ice, resulting in glacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep sea or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. The temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). When atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, pressure cookers can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triples and critical points
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see diagram), there are curves that separate solids from vapors, liquid vapors, and solid liquids. These meet at a point known as the 'triple point', where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At high temperature and pressure the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a superfluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from those of local water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electronics and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst for chemical reactions involving organic compounds. On Earth, it acts as a fluid during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Faces of ice and water
The most common form of ice on Earth is Ih ice, a crystalline phase with two-dimensional symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal shapes. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed, and others have been theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a cubic-phase, high-level ice stage, was discovered when a drop of water was hit by a shock wave that raised the water pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in solid oxygen structures in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between the graphene layers, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; Some theories suggest that his unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to smell. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) often has many dissolved substances that can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to assess the ability of water to avoid salty or polluted water. Color and texture
Pure water appears blue because of the absorption of light in the c region. 600-800 nm. Color can easily be seen in a glass of tube water placed on a pure white background, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the resonances of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to the swimming pool when the light source is the sunlight that shines through the white pool of the pool. In nature, the color may also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used for aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of low-frequency sounds in water means that mirrors with shorter wavelengths can be used. In order to maintain the basic absorption coefficient of water or aqueous solution in the region of approximately 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of approximately 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one material commonly used in cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-activated fundamental vibrations may be observed in, for example, a 1cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach it. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In water molecules, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are close to two sides of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other pair is an electron lone pair that does not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than other elements, so oxygen atoms are partially negatively charged while hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the curved structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a molecule. Water is a good solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter providing carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in organisms, such as protein, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of biomacromolecules shapes protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Inorganic materials are also insoluble, including most iron oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are ten times stronger than the van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J / (g · K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J / g), heat of vaporization (2257 J / g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W / (m·K)). These properties make water very effective at moderating Earth's climate, storing heat and transporting it to the oceans and atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds in water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O-H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributed to electricity, while the remaining 10% is partially connected. These particles are the cause of water's surface tension and root forces. Ductile action refers to the tendency of water to rise up a narrow pipe against the force of gravity. This property is dependent on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ Electrostatic and Electrostatic Activity
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases the dissolution of small amounts of ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing it through an electric current - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its pressure ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa-1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only 1.8% loss in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68°F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with low, especially low velocities (about 0.03 dB/km at 1kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans to detect contact and the environment (sonar). The reaction
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecohydrology focuses on biological ecosystems. The total amount of water found on, under, and above the planet is called the hydrosphere. The amount of ground water (total water in the world) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. They also exist as underground water in aquifers. Water is important to many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and groundwater pressure affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting of volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important for both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser, but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for large amounts of sediment transport across the Earth's surface. The deposition of sediments forms many types of rocks, which constitute the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

Evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and emissions from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that collects in the air and falls on land or sea. Land runoff often reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the oceans is returned, but the wind transports water vapor to the land at the same rate as the ocean currents, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and respiration over landmasses also contribute 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, estimated at 119 Tt per year on Earth, comes in various forms: typically rain, snow, and hail, with the addition of fog and dew. Condensation is small water droplets that condense when high density water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature begins to rise. Air-condensed water can also reflect sunlight to produce a rainbow. Floodwaters often flow into watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, water flows shape the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land to build public centers. Floods occur when an area of ​​land, usually horizontal, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or strong winds blow. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average rainfall either due to its topography or location relative to latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that may be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as "reservoir" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and snow and ice. Of the total amount of global fresh water, about 69 percent is stored in ice and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere, and biota. The length of time that water remains in storage varies greatly: some aquifers contain water that has been stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake may change seasonally, decreasing in the dry season and increasing in the wet season. A large portion of the water supply in some regions consists of water extracted from aquifers, and as withdrawals exceed recharge, reserves decrease. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater recharge, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. Oil content in the oceans varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of sea level caused by the wind forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce circular currents known as tidal currents. The change in tides at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local tides. The coastal strip that lowers the high tides outside the low tide, intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the tides. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are important for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent for many of the body's substances and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy-requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (for example, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or for other purposes). Without water, these unique metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split hydrogen from water into oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from the air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels as oxygen, hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and recycle water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized with a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 ideal conditions. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a pH value greater than 7. Types of aquatic life
Earth's surface water is teeming with life. The first life appeared in the water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some animal species, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the marine food chain. Marine invertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have a gill instead of a lung, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, whales, and seals need to surface occasionally to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit various adaptations to survive in oxygen-poor water including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and sinkers (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in aquatic environments, most have little or no specialization in aquatic respiration. The impact of human civilization
Civilizations have historically developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the Italian banks of the Tiber. Big cities like Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy access to water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, thrive for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water has played a major role in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water may be potable through filtration or purification, or in a variety of other ways. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking, but does not harm people when used for swimming or bathing is called by different names other than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes called clean water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually complies with government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) in drinking water, and 1-2 ppm unreacted chlorine in bathing water). Bath water may be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Clean water is a renewable resource, which is restored by the natural water cycle, but the pressures on its availability arise from natural inequalities in space and time, the growing economic needs of agriculture and industry, and the increase in population. Currently, nearly one billion people in the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe, affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million children from dying from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater remains untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these produce more water each year than natural water cycles. Stress not only affects freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also depletes groundwater resources. Human consumption
Agriculture
The largest human use is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "used" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, filter, deliver water, and remove wastewater. But economic growth, population, and climate pressure are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for limited water resources, leading to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies grow, consumption of arid water bodies expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries rise, new challenges may arise. An agricultural water management assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It conducted an international assessment of current agricultural water availability and identified areas of water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic scarcity, where lack of funding for water or insufficient human capacity makes it difficult for authorities to meet water needs. The report says that it is possible to produce enough food in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental changes will lead to food crises in many parts of the world. To avoid global water crises, farmers must strive to increase production to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by production of water products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Massive environmental damage has been done: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter, and the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes, though, a metal reference standard was needed, a thousand times greater than the kilogram. Therefore the work was entrusted to determine the exact quantity of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the definition of the gram defines water at 0 °C (32 °F) - a very high temperature - scientists have chosen to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was measured at that time at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale in the SI system is based on the triplet of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature measure similar to the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mainly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water in rivers and lakes tends to contain heavier isotopes than in the ocean. Therefore, normal water is defined by the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean specification. Drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Often this is followed by meals or drinks other than drinking plain water. Medical literature prefers low consumption, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, except for additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than needed while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, typically up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation on water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The normal amount for different people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The latest dietary reference intake report of the US National Research Council generally recommended, based on the median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women given, not including total water intake for women. In particular, pregnant and breastfeeding women need more fluids to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as large amounts of fluid are lost during nursing. It is also noted that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water comes out of the body in many forms; urine and feces, sweat, and inhalation of water vapor from the breath. With physical stress and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Humans need water with less pollution. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even required for flavor development and to provide the required electrolytes. The largest (volume) freshwater resource suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. wash
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and to a lesser extent as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. Natural reagents are not often used as reagents, because they do not dissolve well in reagents and are amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction in water was observed. Surface water has recently been a research topic. Highly oxygen-rich water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchanger
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high thermal capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be found naturally in a lake or ocean. It is particularly effective in removing heat from steam and water vapor due to its high heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as iron and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and cooler), and as a refrigerant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or to transport steam through a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants is the largest use of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the medium. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down nuclear reactions. However other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core in water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic substances float on top of the water, and the water tends to spread the flammable liquid. The use of water in fire fighting must also take into account the risk of steam explosion, which may occur when water is used for very hot fires in limited areas, and hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or coke graphite, cut the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case did not come from a fire extinguisher but from the reactor's own cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when excessive heat in the core causes water to explode into the steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a bulking agent that is often carried in paper bags. If these are soaked, they may ignite when the contents come into contact with water. Entertainment
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, swimming and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and enjoy themselves. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water to be soothing, fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or skiing, which require the water to be at a low temperature as ice or crystallized into ice. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Sources of water include wells, rainwater wells, water networks, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are in development. Drinking water is usually collected from springs, produced from artificial borings in the ground, or brought from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in sufficient locations is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of insoluble matter, soluble matter and harmful microbes. Popular methods are filtered with sand which removes insoluble matter, while chlorine and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Mass desalination is a cost-effective solution for arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, delivered by tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute money to the needy. Reducing potable (potable) water use only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Contaminated water can be the misuse of water alone; To the extent that pollution limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard calculation of market costs, as they are assumed to be externalities that cannot be accounted for by the market. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local population, the victims of that pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in waterways and can have a negative impact on aquatic life, both living and non-living. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Minimizing surface water runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to act on products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical waste, bleaching, paper processing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, require special water sources, and often cause water pollution. Water is used for energy production. Hydroelectricity is electricity that is obtained from hydropower. Electric power comes from water driving water turbines connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a renewable, low-cost, non-polluting source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. A dam is usually built across the river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines which become motors. Pressurized water is used for water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water jets are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used for cooling machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and boilers, in addition to chemical uses. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollutants include solutes (chemical pollutants) and cold water released (thermal pollutants). Industries require clean water for many applications and use different purification techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence consumes large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten international and national water security". Food preparation
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or in its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn affects altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature with lower air pressure at higher altitudes. One sucrose (sugar) kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles decreases water ice. Solutes in water also affect water movement which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. The mobility of water can be expressed as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. E water dryness is also an important factor in food processing and may be modified or treated using chemical ion exchange systems. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, as well as play a role in hygiene. E hardness of water is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also state that this is an international average and that environmental factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution of nature
The universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When these ejected particles eventually impact the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly ejected from this warm dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report reported the discovery of a huge cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been abundant in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water is found in the interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies, too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and those of other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar properties. Water vapor
Water exists as steam:

Atmosphere of the Sun: that amount can be detected
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and a large amount of water in the exosphere of Mercury
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% more than the full atmosphere, typically 1-4% of the surface
Atmosphere of the Moon: in the scale
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Atmosphere of Jupiter: 0.0004% - of ice only; and that of its moon Europa
Atmosphere of Saturn - only ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (bottom ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - with an amount below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - found in deep layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, cap-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cooler stars but also found in hot stars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Orbital disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is on Earth, covering 71% of the surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on Saturn's moon Enceladus, as a 10-km-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus' south polar, and Titan, which is the bottom layer, and it is possible to mix ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a wedged layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice:

 Mars: under regolith and columns. Earth–Moon system: mostly as ice sheets on Earth and lunar surfaces and volcanic rocks NASA reported that NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper detected water molecules on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 satellite in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa as well as Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: the planetary ring system and the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
Also likely to be:

Rods of Mercury
Tethys

Strange forms
Water and other changes probably make up a lot of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deep still like the surface water in which the oxygen is produced, but the ions are free floating inside the hydrogen bonds. Water and the environment planet
The existence of liquid water, and to some extent gaseous and solid forms, on Earth's surface is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or farther from the Sun (up to 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that would allow all three species to coexist would be less likely to exist. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps keep surface temperatures relatively stable at constant concentrations. The state of the planet's water depends on the pressure of the environment, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If the planet is large enough, the surface water can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure from gravity, as seen in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water policy is the policy that affects water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important part of many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved in recent decades everywhere in the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have access to a safe water source since 1990. The number of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. plagued by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not engaged donors in the water sector as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the ability to address them. The authors of the 2007 Global Assessment of Agricultural Water Management cited mismanagement as one of the causes of water scarcity. Water governance is the formal and informal process of making decisions related to water management. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which methods work best in a particular physical and cultural context. A mistake is sometimes made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to improve the world's places and conditions. The Mekong River is one example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of the policies of six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that an efficient and effective cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment is rarely done. They also found that Cambodia's draft law was more stringent than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People living in cities (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been described as widespread, due to excessive consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high water stress. But in the last 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, tropical floods have quadrupled, while floods in northern latitudes have increased by 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations relevant to water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects that aim to use effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related treaties are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is held on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered the era of "Water Destruction" because more than 50% of the Great Lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in unsafe countries, 4 billion people face a water shortage of $ 3 per year and one billion dollars a year. It called for policies that fit reality rather than old rules. In practice
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Beliefs that include ritual washing (decoration) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or courtship or immersion) of a person in water is the central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); It is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, pure water bathing is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five prayers can be performed usually after washing parts of the body using clean water (wudu), if water is not available (see Tayamum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example, the misogi ritual). In the Christian religion, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places and things, or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four primitive elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, denser than water, rose from water. Thales, a monist, continued to believe that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron - easily flowing compared to the cube-shaped earth. The perception of the four humors of the body is related to phlegm water, as cold and moist. The ancient element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a metaphor. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest virtues are like (this) water. The virtues of water seem to be beneficial to everything, and to occupy, without striving (on the contrary), the lower place that all men hate. Therefore (its path) is nearer to (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, and yet attacks things that are strong and strong." nothing can prevent it - because there is nothing (effectively) that can be replaced." the natural quality of people living in different regions of China in the nature of local water resources
"Living water" is in Germanic and Slavic folklore to revive the dead. Consider the Grimm's tale ("Living Water") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth is a concept associated with magical water that is said to be anti-aging. Art and activism
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism with 309 questions and answers, one of which is called "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not only a "monotonous truth of the facts", rather, sentences that, as their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until it goes down to a quiet quiescence of the conclusion" plagued fens, flower blossoms dwindled, stagnant pools" is one of the most misleading hymns considered. Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves the "impossible act of raising the flow of information in school books." The literary theme of the story is "eternal life," and the song is the conclusion of the story. Its universality: the democratic equality and consistency of its character in the search of its own level: its vastness in the sea of Mercator's projection: its depth and intangibility of the Sundam hole in the Pacific that exceeds the 8,000 surface and the rest of the surface that they visited. points of its board of the sea: the independence of its units: its hydrostatic quiescence stable: its hydrokinetic turgidity of the neap and the spring of the waves spring: its downfall after its collapse: its sterility of the sky, arctic and antarctic: climate and commercial importance: its preponderance of the globe Hegemony that extends to the double leagues of the entire region below the subequatorial tropics of Capricorn: the different stability of its primary basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all dissolved substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow shortening of islands and lowering: its entire weight. Lagoons and mountain towers: the colors of which include torrid and cold and cooler zones: its vehicle capacity of continental lakes consisting of ocean currents and mixed water flowing currents and transoceanic currents: currents, north and south, courses of water wells of the sea Explosions, streams, torrents, salt, clay, water wells, waterfalls, waterfalls, geysers, flashes, winds, torrents, streams, flood, bursting clouds: the curve of the vast terrestrial circulation: its secret springs, and the hidden moisture, revealed by the wall of the gate of Ashtown, the saturation of the air, the distillation of the dew: the simplicity of its composition, the two parts of hydrogen containing a part of oxygen: its healing goodness: its buoyancy of the waters of the Dead Sea: its resistance penetrated by runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, flooding houses and firefighting, housecleaning and firefighting. Nutritious plants: immutability as patterns and patterns: metamorphoses such as steam, fog, cloud, rain, snow, snow, hail: its strength in hard waters: different types of different types of loughs and bays and gulfs. glaciers, glaciers, glaciers: its power in windmills, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floats and moorings: its power to be mined or mined under water. flora (anacoustic, photophobe) quantitatively, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: they everywhere contain 90% of the human body: the horror of their flu in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, flower beds, stagnant pools of the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster assessed the Price of Water, Cathedral of St. The largest exhibition ever at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an environmental art group that uses water as its subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation as a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
Dihydrogen monoxide is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of falsehoods and crimes to entertain scientific ignorance. This started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake news contained safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" is used by many Florida-based rappers as a form of slang or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To continue some artists have created whole songs for Florida water, like the 2023 song Danny Towers "Florida Water". See also
Reminder
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
History of Water Conflicts: History of Water Conflicts Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
World Bank Strategy Portal, work and publications related to water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the network
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Thoughts, BBC, Video, 3:16 min, 2019
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association of Water and Vapor Stored Properties 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary