Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. As a polar molecule, water undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity due to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water on Earth exists as a solid, liquid, and gas. It creates precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended drops of water and ice, its solid state. When finely ground, crystalline ice may precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with most of the water volume being seas and oceans (about 96.5%). Small portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water is constantly moving through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually ending up in the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by ship across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and households. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide range of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also for Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod'we-or, Swed'ixed form *wod'we, swed'ixed). Also related through an Indo-European root to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (water), Irish uisce and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes referred to as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. states
Water, along with oxidant, is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and contracts when cooled within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so while liquid. It is also unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of the water decreases. When it freezes to become ice, water expands by about 9% and reaches a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and forms ice on the surface that floats on the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below and prevents it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes would die during the winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can achieve remarkable interaction with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or condenses into steam at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn to vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation in a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form by depositing on an aerosol particle or ice core. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure, so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 a 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, volume increases on melting, so the melting point increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting point decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the gas phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful Geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gas- and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures, it is freely miscible with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent in the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper layers of the atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms additional crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When ice is sandwiched between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless water, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or putrid. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600-800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column according to Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool, when the source of light is sunlight reflecting off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used for aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that short-path glass cuvettes can be used. A path length of about 25 μm is required to observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solution in the region around 3500 cm-1 (2.85 μm). The cuvette must also be transparent around 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the materials commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed using, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water as deep as hundreds of meters because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches the part of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than the refractive index of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.64 to 1.64). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than the refractive index of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with an oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the oxygen-centered tetrahedron. In the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is electronegative like most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent that dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - carbon dioxide gives the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other life-critical phenomena (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transferring it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, 90% is estimated to be electrostatic, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this feature. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with solvation of the formed hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity that increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as table salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility under normal conditions ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10-10 Pa-1. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only suffers a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10-3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s), depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by whales and humans to communicate and sense the environment (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to produce carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the science of the movement, distribution and quality of water on Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers glaciology, inland waters limnology and ocean distribution oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The total mass of water found on, below and above the surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for the large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water constantly moves through each of these areas in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the atmosphere and transpiration of terrestrial plants and animals into the atmosphere. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but wind transports water vapor over land at the same rate as outflow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring on land also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation with a rate of 119 Tt per year on land takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high-density water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight and create rainbows. Runoff water is often collected through watersheds flowing into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or when there is a storm. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a lack of water. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average rainfall either due to its topography or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural sources of water that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or water for irrigation. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, falling during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A substantial part of the water supply for some regions is water obtained from water stored in reserves, and when withdrawals exceed replenishment, reserves are reduced. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important ways. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature down to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density above freezing. The salinity of water in the large seas ranges from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of water bodies in seas and estuaries, creating oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are crucial for the spread of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vitally important as a solvent in which many solutes in the body dissolve, but also as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via enzymatic chemical reactions requiring energy) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to make smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not exist. Water is the basis for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split hydrogen from water from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also crucial for acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton) can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), to form water. Water is considered neutral with a pH (negative logarithm of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values lower than 7, while bases have values higher than 7. Life forms in water
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as algae and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as the lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must regularly surface to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide variety of modifications for survival in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrate life evolved in aquatic environments, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the subsequent expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports like Singapore have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water has been and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by other names than potable or potable water and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for swimming". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm of chlorine that has not yet reacted with impurities in bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most often sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. Every year, 380 billion cubic meters of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures to access it arise from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and a growing population. Currently, nearly a billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; approximately five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries with about a third of the world's population also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of them withdraw more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The most important use of water by humans is in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which represents up to 80 to 90 percent of the total water consumption by humans. In the United States, 42% of freshwater is withdrawn for irrigation use, but the vast majority of "consumed" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify and deliver water and dispose of wastewater. However, growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are raising concerns about water problems, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, leading to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries are likely to emerge. The Agricultural Water Management Assessment was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to determine whether the world has enough water to provide food for a growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas of economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the required food in the future, but that a continuation of today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to try to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton – the equivalent of a pair of jeans – requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water consumption, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. They have caused considerable damage to the environment: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter at the temperature of melting ice." However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was required. Work was therefore commissioned to accurately determine the weight of one liter of water. Although the mandated definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists decided to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which at the time was measured to be 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is instead based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the specification Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. For drinking
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters of water for adult men and 2.7 liters for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking plain water. The medical literature favors a lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, except for additional requirements due to fluid loss during exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary when exercising, putting themselves at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, has been linked to weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council was: "The usual norm for a diverse person is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is contained in prepared foods." The most recent Dietary Reference Intake report from the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total dietary water intake for women, which is about 9% water. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups) because especially large amounts of fluid are lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that normally around 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in several forms; urine and faeces, sweating and exhaling water vapor in the breath. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may increase. People need water with little impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleaches; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) source of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Nevertheless, these characteristics are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was also observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be naturally available from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective for heat transfer by evaporation and condensation of water because it has a large latent heat of vaporization. The downside is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. Almost all thermal power plants use water as the working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and coolant (used to exchange waste heat to a water body or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling plants have the largest water consumption. In nuclear energy, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction, and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Reflections on fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on oil and organic solvent fires because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the dangers of steam explosions that can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coke, break down water to form water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although in this case the water did not come from extinguishing the fire, but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused the water to turn to steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction between the steam and the hot zircon. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metal and alkaline earth metal oxides, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are soaked, they can catch fire because their contents react with water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakefronts, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or to crystallize into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater catchment tanks, water mains and water treatment facilities, water reservoirs, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, obtained from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Thus, building more wells in suitable locations is a possible way to produce more water, provided the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require treatment for human consumption. This can include the removal of suspended solids, dissolved solids and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal dry climates. The distribution of drinking water is realized through municipal water supply systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to people in need. Another option is to reduce consumption by using potable (drinking) water for human consumption only. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the biggest single misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs, as it is understood as an externality for which the market cannot be responsible. The price of water pollution is thus paid by other people, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local population, which is the victim of this pollution. Medicines consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous suspension, or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling consume large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in energy production. Hydropower is electricity obtained from water power. Hydropower comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is supplied by the movement of water. A dam is usually built on a river and creates an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent saw blades from overheating or overheating. Apart from being used as a chemical solvent, water is also used in many industrial processes and machines such as steam turbine and heat exchanger. Discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged dissolved substances (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various treatment techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the spread of AI may "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and braising are popular cooking methods that often require immersing foods in water or their gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in food science. Dissolved substances such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity levels. The growth of microbes affects not only the safety of food, but also its preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or adjusted using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality as well as play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or less than 60 mg/l (USA). According to a report published by Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and the amount of water used in beef production is determined by circumstances. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In space
Much of the water in space is created as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually hits the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the scientists, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar components. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4% and large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and his month Europe
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus – in trace amounts below 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere - located in the deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including the disks of more than half of the T Tauri stars, such as AA Tauri, as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is occasionally found on Mars in small quantities. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on Saturn's moon Enceladus as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus and on Titan as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks In September 2009, NASA announced the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 probe. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And probably also occurs on:

Mercury's poles
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably make up much of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, in which the molecules disintegrate into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper as superionic water, in which the oxygen crystallizes but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and the habitability of planets
The existence of liquid water and, to a lesser extent, its gaseous and solid forms on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the simultaneous presence of these three forms would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to maintain the atmosphere, including atmospheric moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health consequences and damages biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion people do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report issued in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe source of water. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the mandate to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply "designs" that work in the developed world to the places and contexts of developing countries. The Mekong River is one example; an International Water Institute review of policies in six countries that rely on Mekong River water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-making tools for the development of sustainable water policy. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water scarcity. Nevertheless, water use has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has increased fourfold, while flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased 2.5-fold. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Water conservation organizations include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects aimed at effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-scarce countries, 4 billion people experience at least $3 billion a month and a year of water scarcity. He called for a policy that matches reality and not past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The central sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism) is the immersion (or absorption or merging) of a person in water; it is part of the practice of other religions as well, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu) unless water is available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (e.g. in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as ylem, or the basic substance of the universe. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the Earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm because it is cold and moist. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest perfection is like water. The perfection of water is manifested in that it benefits all things, and that without striving (on the contrary) it occupies a low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to (the way of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet for attacking things that are solid and strong, there is nothing that can give it precedence—for there is nothing (so effective) for which it can be changed.' Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter on the natural symbolism of water further elaborates and attributes water. the qualities of people from different Chinese regions to the nature of local water resources
In Germanic and Slavic folk tales, "living water" appears as a means of reviving the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical waters said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "Water Hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous string of facts" but rather its phrases, like their subject matter, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break until they fall into the calm silence of the final "plague bog, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon" and, according to most literary critics, it is considered one of the most remarkable passages of the hymn ha. Kenner managed "the improbable feat of elevating into poetry all the clutter of information that has accumulated in school textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. The full quoted hymn follows. What did Bloom, the water-lover, the drawer of water, the water-carrier returning to the mountains, admire in the water? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in finding its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its uncovered depth in the Sundam Trench of the Pacific, exceeding 8,000 restless surface points on its waves: the independence of its units: the changeability of the states of the sea: its hydrostatic tranquility at rest: its hydrokinetic turgidity in tides and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar glaciers, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3 to 1 preponderance over its disputed line in dry land the entire area below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the many-world stability of its prehistoric basin: its luteofulous floor: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the rarest metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and its downward-sloping promontories: its weight and volume its sediments and imperviousness: and its land marshes: their gradation of color in arid and temperate and frigid zones: its transport ramifications in continental streams with lakes and confluent oceanic rivers with their tributaries and oceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial currents: violence of sea shocks, gargoyles waters, artesian rifts, torrents, artesian wells ground waves, basins, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast and horizontal curve around the earth: its concealment in springs and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric gate, air hole and saturation in Ashtown distillation dew: the simplicity of its composition, two components of hydrogen with one component of oxygen: its healing properties: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetration in canals, gutters, insufficient dams, ship leaks: its properties for purifying, quenching and extinguishing fire, paragon and nourishing its metamorphosis as vapor, mist, cloud, rain, rain, snow, hail: its power in solid hydrants: its variety of forms in lakes and gulfs and bays and inlets and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries, solid glaciers and glacier arms ice floes: its ability to work with hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric plants, bleachers, tanneries, furrows: their use in canals, rivers, if navigable, in floating and engraving docks: their possibilities derived from tides or water courses falling from level to level: its submarine fauna, if not, its fossil flora, literally the flora of the globe: its omnipresence, as it constitutes 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effusions in lake marshes, plague marshes, faded flower water, stagnant ponds at waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Fosterová was the curator of The Value of Water in St. John the Divine in New York, which anchored the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the cathedral featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Long, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject matter or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. On the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the UN declaring access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of nitric oxide
"Hydrogen oxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983 when an article about April Fool's Day appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of concerns about the safety of the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have pulled it off include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

World water data page
Comprehensive water database FAO, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Science (USGS)
Portal on World Bank strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary