Water is an organic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical. It is the main source of the world's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living things, where it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is important for all forms of life, although it does not provide energy or an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its universal size, and its powerful force relative to its small size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure of the earth is close to the third state of water, the water that exists on the earth is a solid, liquid, and a gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of water droplets and ice, its solid state. When properly split, ice crystals can break like snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. About 71% of the earth's surface is covered by water, and seas and oceans make up most of the water (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as soil (1.7%), in the ice and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (including ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water goes through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, evaporation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ships on oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Most water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in factories and homes. Water is an excellent solution for many different things, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, skiing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, skiing, and snowboarding. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-wet' form of). Likewise, through the Indo-European root, and Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
In the world
Property
Water (H2O) is a polar compound. At room temperature it is tasteless and odorless, almost colorless and has a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, the most studied chemical and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve substances better than any other liquid, although it is not good at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature is almost always composed of various solvents, and special steps are required to obtain pure water. Water is the only natural substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas at standard cosmic temperatures. State
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical H2O; the water phase is also H2O. The other two common forms of water are the solid phase, ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (water to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and condensation (water to ice). Strength
Water is one of the most common substances that expands and contracts as it cools at different temperatures; it's the only natural thing that happens during pregnancy. Also, it's not uncommon for you to lose a lot of thickness when resting, although it's not unusual in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, which is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it cools to form ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a weight of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause pressure, broken pipes and broken rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the natural behavior of contracting and thickening as it cools. These rare gases have important implications for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, forming ice on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice freezes the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, many aquatic species that live in lakes will die in the winter. In addition, this turbulent behavior is an important part of the thermohaline cycle that distributes heat to the oceans of the planet. Magnet
Water is a magical substance. Although the interaction is weak, superconducting magnets can produce a significant interaction. Group order
At one atmospheric pressure (atm), ice or water freezes (solid) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water or vapor boils at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor on the surface of the water by evaporation (the evaporation of water is called evaporation). Condensation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, ice is placed on cold surfaces while being attached to an aerosol or ice pack. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored under pressure to lower the surface ice. The boiling and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron equation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v__{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v__{\text{S}}}
  
 the molar volumes of water and solids, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L__{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most chemicals, the volume increases when they are melted, so the melting point increases with the weight. However, because ice is less dense than water, it has a lower melting temperature. In glaciers, it can melt heavily under the thick volume of ice, causing the lake. The relation of Clausius-Clapeyron is also related to the liquid, but with the change of water / gas the vessel has a lower pressure than the water, so the liquid expands with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In water heaters, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As air pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by four to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, the water will boil at room temperature. Triple sign and importance
On a pressure/temperature diagram (see diagram), there are barriers that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These parts meet in a single condition called the third part, where all three parts can coexist. The triple point has a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure that water can have. Until 2019, the triple point was used to describe the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/liquid phase boundary ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical component. At high temperature and pressure liquid and vapor form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually or expand between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (quite different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for pressure and temperature can be freely mixed and non-polar compounds, including many organic substances. It is used in many applications including high-temperature electricity and as an environmental solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic matter. In the earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation of minerals, dissolution and accumulation. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of ice on the earth is Ih ice, which is a crystal-forming phase with a hexagonal shape. Another crystalline solid, ice Ic, can grow in air. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been confirmed models and many more are predicted specifically. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, a group of ice focused on cubic, superionic forms, was found when a drop of water was exposed to a shock wave that raised the pressure of water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of strong oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the acidic nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans with special sensors can feel the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell. However, water from natural sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of additives that can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to assess the potential of water to avoid salty or corrosive waters. Color and shape
Pure water is clear blue because it absorbs light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a clean white, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the tone color are the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This is also used, for example, in the swimming pool where the sunlight is coming from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of permanent solids or algae. In industry, near-field vision is used as a solution because the powerful downdrafts mean that glass lenses and long path lengths can be used. To observe the broadening spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. In addition, the cuvette must be transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and cannot be diluted with water; calcium fluoride is one commonly used material for cuvette coatings and aqueous solutions. The Raman-based pattern can be observed, for example, in a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to a hundred meters deep, because the sun can reach it. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6.4). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5 ° angle with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners of the pair of valence electrons do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms will form an angle of 109.5 °, but the resistance between the pairs is greater than the resistance between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Others have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are placed in a positive charge. With the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric current and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also gives off many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter of which makes carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and the small parts of these biomacromolecules drive protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other important features in life (hydrophobic effect). Most organic compounds (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many organic compounds are also insoluble, including many metals, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a molecule of water in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why melts and springs are higher than other similar substances such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its high thermal conductivity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and heat (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is a covalent component. These bands are the reason for the high visibility of the water and the capillary force. Capillary action refers to the movement of water up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is determined by all plants, such as trees. Self-motivation
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide -which has a balance 2H2O ⇌ H3O + + OH−, with the dissolution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electricity and electricity
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which is increased by dissolving a small amount of ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy to be supplied than the heat supplied by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical equipment
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for many purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 in standard conditions. Even in the oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water only has a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound that travels far in water is less disturbing, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Activity
Metal elements that are more electronegative than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the world. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland water is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Environmental processes and their analysis are within the discipline of ecohydrology. Most of the water found above, below, and above the planet is called the hydrosphere. The total amount of water on Earth (the total amount of water on Earth) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Fresh water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, lake, or pond. Most of the water in the world is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere as solid, liquid, and vapor. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this water affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth, water is important both in chemistry and in climate change. Water, and to a lesser but important extent, ice, is also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. Accumulation of transported sediment produces many types of sedimentary rocks, which record the history of the world. Water swirls
The water cycle (scientifically called the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the water body, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water is constantly moving through each phase in the water cycle which includes the following transfer processes:

water vapor from seas and other water into the air and movement from plants and animals into the air. rain, from water vapor that collects from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the sea returns to it, but the wind carries the water vapor on the land at the same rate as the currents in the sea, about 47 Tt per year while the water vapor and transpiration that occurs on the land also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at an average of 119 Tt per year on land, is of many types: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when the vapor pressure of water meets a cold surface. Dew is usually found in the morning when the temperature is lowest, before the sun rises and when the surface temperature starts to increase. The sun's rays can also be directed to produce rainbows. Runoff usually accumulates on the surface of the water that flows into the river. Through erosion, the currents create the environment creating valleys and troughs that provide rich soil and plains for the establishment of centers. A flood occurs when a part of the land, usually low-lying, is flooded with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a strong storm. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water. This happens when a region receives less rainfall due to its geography or location in terms of latitude. Source
Water is a natural source of water that can be useful for people, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stuff" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, ground water or water, and ice and snow. Of the world's total freshwater, about 69 percent is stored in ice and permanent snow; 30 percent is in the ground; and the remaining 1 percent to lakes, rivers, the environment, and wildlife. The length of time water is stored is highly variable: some aquifers contain water stored for thousands of years, but the lake can vary seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large part of the water supply for some regions consists of water obtained from water stored in reservoirs, and when the recovery is overdrawn, the supply decreases. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of the amount of water used for irrigation comes from the inability to retain groundwater, resulting in water depletion. Sea and tide
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, with small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important ways. It freezes at a low temperature (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature at freezing, rather than reaching a maximum at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the great seas varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity between 30 and 40%, is a salt lake.)
Circumferential tides and the fall of sea level in the country are caused by the tidal forces of the moon and the sun on the surface of the ocean. Tides cause changes in the depth of the ocean and water and produce currents called rivers. The change in tides found in a place is caused by the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local tides. The part of the coast that is flooded and exposed to the water, the intertidal zone, is an important part of the tidal ecosystem. Life experience
From a biological point of view, water has many specific properties that are important for sustaining life. It fulfills this role by allowing organisms to behave in ways that allow reproduction. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is very important as a solvent that dissolves many of the body's solutes and is an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from the molecules (through the energy required by the enzymes) to create larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storage of fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these processes cannot exist. Water is the basis of photosynthesis and respiration. Solar cells use solar energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (changed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use these fuels and break down hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base balance and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can end up with a base, a proton accepter such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Water has a pH less than 7 while bases have a pH greater than 7. Aquatic organisms
The waters on earth are teeming with life. The first living things appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many species of marine life, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in the water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have lungs rather than lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to come up from time to time to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit many adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated waters including respiratory tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolves in an aquatic environment, most have little or no special ability to breathe in water. Impact on people's lives
History thrives on rivers and canals; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of mankind, was situated between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley (c. 3300 B.C. – c. 1300 B.C.) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries in the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong have prospered in part due to easy access by water and increased trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water has been a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtering or filtering, or in many other ways. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but does not harm people when used for swimming or bathing is called by different names other than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that can be used to soften water for bathing or drinking. Its use is very specific and often monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of undiluted and pure chlorine for bathing water). Bath water can be kept at a satisfactory microbiological level by using disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (commonly known as wastewater, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable, non-renewable natural resource of water, but its availability is driven by uneven distribution in space and time, increasing economic demands through agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people in the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goal for water to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to safe and clean water. Progress towards that goal is uneven, and in 2015 the UN set the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. The quality of water and poor sanitation are dire; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all urban wastewater still flows untreated into rivers and streams. About 50 countries, which account for one third of the world's population, are also suffering from water scarcity or high water scarcity and 17 of these produce more water each year than is replenished by their natural resources. The impact not only affects surface freshwater such as rivers and lakes, but also damages ground resources. Used by people
Agriculture
Most human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total water use. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "used" (used but not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often underestimated, especially in developing countries that are building special water systems for the collection, treatment, and distribution of water, and the removal of wastewater. But economic, demographic, and climate growth are increasing concerns about water, causing increased competition for permanent water resources, and creating the concept of high water. As the population and economy continue to grow, water-hungry meat consumption increases, and new demands for fossil fuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges may arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to determine whether the world has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the availability of water for agriculture around the world and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that one fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas facing water scarcity, where insufficient investment in water or insufficient capacity of the population prevents the authorities from meeting the demand for water. The report found that it is possible to produce the food we need in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and the environment will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid the global water crisis, farmers must try to increase production to meet the growing demand for food, while businesses and cities look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kilogram of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is used in regions that are at risk of water scarcity. A lot of environmental damage was caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the rivers Amu Darya and Syr Darya to produce cotton caused the disappearance of the Aral Sea. It's like a scientific situation
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter, and to the temperature of melting ice". But for practical purposes, an iron standard, one thousand times the weight, of a kilogram was needed. So the task was to determine the exact weight of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the gram definition specifies water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—the scientists decided to redefine the norm and perform their measurements at the maximum water temperature, which was measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the third part of water, defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is the absolute temperature scale with the same extension as the Celsius temperature scale, which was previously defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also contains small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have lower isotope concentrations than seawater. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. recommends National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are found in foods or beverages other than drinking directly. The medical literature recommends the lowest intake, usually 1 liter of water for the average male, not including additional needs due to dehydration from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than they need while exercising, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that increasing water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, is associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent diarrhea. An original recommendation for drinking water in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council reads: "A standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The latest report of the US National Research Council's food intake generally recommends, based on the total amount of water from US data (including sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal, not the total water content) eat in 9% of food, but not the total amount of water in the study. Pregnant women and lactating women need extra water to maintain fluid. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), since a large amount of water is lost during nursing. It is also noted that normally, about 20% of water comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (caffeine). Water leaves the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweat, and through inhalation of water vapor in the stomach. With physical exertion and heat, water loss will increase and daily water requirements may increase. People need water that is less harmful. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; specific chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or noise; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and necessary to improve flavor and provide the necessary electrolytes. The largest single lake (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Wash
Transportation
Drug use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or solvent and less commonly as a solute or solvent. In physical reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds that are closely related to water. In biological processes, it is not often used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve solvents well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes needed. In addition, the speed of Diels-Alder reactions through water has been observed. Hazardous water has recently become the subject of research. Oxygenated water treatment effectively burns organic matter. Heat transfer
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, because of its availability and high temperature, not only for cooling and heating. Cold water can also be obtained naturally from a lake or sea. Heat transfer is most efficient by condensation and evaporation of water due to the high heat of condensation. A disadvantage of metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper is that untreated water and steam corrode quickly. In almost all power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed vessel between the box, motor, and condenser), and cooling (used to change the waste heat to a liquid water or take it away by saving it in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron carrier. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a regulator. This provides something of a safety measure, because the removal of water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are successful for stopping a reaction and it is better to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure good cooling. Fire thoughts
Water has a high vapor temperature and is relatively volatile, which makes it a good fire extinguishing liquid. The water heater takes the heat away from the engine. It is dangerous to use water on fires including oil and solvents because many organic substances float on the surface of the water and the water tends to spread the fire. The use of water in extinguishing fires must also take into account the risks of an explosive vapor, which may occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined areas, and hydrogen explosion, when things that are opposed to water, such as some metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or graphite coke, decompose the water, producing the liquid gas. The intensity of such events was seen in the Chernobyl accident, although the water involved in this case did not come from the ignition but from the reactor's cooling water. A steam explosion occurred when the core overheated causing the water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some ferrous metals, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate large amounts of heat when exposed to water that may present a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a bulk product that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are wet, they can catch fire as the contents mix with water. Entertainment
People use water for many activities, as well as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy vacations. Many people find the sound and appearance of running water to be calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, fun, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, snowboarding, snowmobiling or snowmobiling, where water is required at a low temperature or as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry supplies drinking water and wastewater (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water networks, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old canals. Water production is increasing. Drinking water is usually collected in springs, brought from wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. The construction of other wells in suitable places is a reasonable way to get more water, considering that the aquifers can provide a good flow. Other sources include rainwater harvesting. The water may need to be treated for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved matter, yeast and harmful microbes. Popular methods of sandblasting only remove undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Filters perform all three functions. There are better methods, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal areas. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water supply, tank supply or bottled water. Government programs in many countries distribute water to the poor for free. Reducing use by using drinking water (water) only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, the sea is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to save new resources. Waste water may be one of the most misused of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of its effectiveness in pollution. As with other types of pollution, it is not included in the standard market price index, as externalities cannot be recorded by the market. This is why other people pay the cost of polluted water, but the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the population, who are affected by this pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in waterways and can have negative effects on aquatic life if they accumulate and if they cannot be degraded. Urban and industrial wastewater is often treated at a sewage treatment plant. The reduction of pollutant flows is accomplished through a number of preventive and treatment methods. Commercial use
Many industrial operations rely on operations that use water-soluble chemicals, suspend solids in water slurries or use water to dissolve and remove materials, or wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulping, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and heating power plants use a lot of water, require a special source, and often cause a lot of water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Electricity is the electricity produced by electricity. The electrical energy produced by the water drives a water machine connected to a generator. Electricity is a low-cost, non-destructive, renewable energy source. The energy comes from the movement of water. A dam is usually built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing from the lake is forced by turbines to turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water softening and water storage. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It is very effective, relatively safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in cooling devices to prevent overheating, or to prevent your vision from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as electricity and heat, in addition to its use as a chemical agent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (disinfectant dust) and discharged cooling water (heated coolant). Industry requires clean water for many uses and uses a variety of treatment methods both for water supply and storage. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten the security of the world and the country". food production
Boiling, steaming, and steaming are popular methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous, steamed state. The water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays an important role in the quality of food. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of the water. The spring and cold temperatures of water are affected by solutes, as is air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures and lower air pressure occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point of water by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the amount of solvent reduces the amount of ice water. The solutes in the water also affect the movement of the water which affects many bacterial activities and the growth of certain nutrients. Water activity can be defined as a ratio of the weight of water in a solution to the weight of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water- this is important to know because many bacteria are limited to low water levels. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and use of food. Water hardness is a very important factor in food production and can be changed or treated through the use of water softeners. It can seriously affect the quality of a product, as well as contribute to hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the amount of calcium carbonate present in the water. Soft water is classified as having less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of cattle requires 15 thousand liters (3.3 × 10 ^ 3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10 ^ 3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is the global average and the specific factors that determine the amount of water used in cattle production. Medical use
Liquids for injections are on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Share in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced by the stars. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this flow of matter impacts the surrounding gas, shock waves are created that compress and heat the gas. Water is observed to rapidly form in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the oceans of the world combined" in a quasar 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "research shows that water was common in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water is found in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. There may be a lot of water in other galaxies, because its components, hydrogen, and oxygen, are some of the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stars, many other planets appear to have similar properties. Steam water
Water exists as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in a noticeable amount
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and most of the water in the outer part of Mercury
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of total atmosphere, usually 1–4% above
Atmosphere of the Moon: in the special quantity
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and its European moon
Saturn's atmosphere - in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (ocean below)
Atmosphere of Uranus - less than 50 bars
Neptune's atmosphere – found in the depths
Outer planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cold stars and even known to large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disk: includes more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
There is liquid water on the earth's surface, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that water exists on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the polar ice on the south side of Enceladus, and Titan, a subsurface, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has unique features that suggest water beneath the ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-altitude ice and rock. Ice water
Water is present as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: common as ice on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanoes NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it's also on:

pole of Mercury
Tethys

Unique
Water and other things can include many structures in Uranus and Neptune and the water in the depths can be in the form of acidic water where the molecules break down in a soup of hydrogen and oxygen, and deeper as high water where the oxygen evaporates, but the hydrogen ion floats freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and habitable planets
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gases and solids, on the surface is essential for life on earth as we know it. The Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is a little closer or far from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that can have these three types at the same time will be very small. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity can hold an atmosphere, including moisture in the air. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a greenhouse effect (greenhouse effect) which helps to maintain a constant temperature of the earth when present in normal amounts. The level of water on the planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the gravity of the planet. If the planet is large enough, the water it contains can freeze even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is the politics of water and resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a special resource around the world and is an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past several years in almost every part of the world, but an estimated one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-related problems. A report, issued in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The number of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report is enough access to water for all, but in 2006 it was enough. problems with poor governance and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the quality of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been used by donors as effectively as they have done in education and health, which may leave many donors working on projects and receiving governments without the incentive to work. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as one of the causes of some types of water scarcity. Water management is the set of formal and informal decision-making processes related to water management. Good water management is about knowing what processes are best in a particular physical and economic situation. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to apply 'strategies' that work in developing countries to developing areas and world conditions. The Mekong river is one example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment are rare. They also found that Cambodia's water laws are more stringent than they should be. In 2004, the UK Charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-borne diseases, which are often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, prepared by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. People in cities (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity in 2050. Water scarcity has been described as a disease, due to excessive use and pollution. The report says that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or severe water pollution. But in the last 40 years, the use of water has increased by about 1% per year, and it is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has doubled, while flooding in the north of the middle latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations focused on water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute is carrying out projects with the aim of efficient use of water to reduce poverty. The water treaties are the United Nations Convention against Pollution (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is on March 22 and World Ocean Day is on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that people have entered the era of "Water loss" because more than 50% of the great lakes have collapsed since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in unsafe countries, 4 billion people and less than one month of 7 billion in each year. It required policies that fit reality rather than conventional wisdom. In culture
Worship
Water is considered a cleanser in many religions. Faiths that involve traditional washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, the ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing the body parts using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayamum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to purify a person or group (for example, in the ritual of incense). In Christianity, holy water is the water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, for blessing people, places, and things, or as a way to fight evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four basic elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and thought of it as ylem, or the basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, thought that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that everything is made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the compacted earth. The theory of bodily humors associates water with bloom, as do cold and wetness. The basic element of water is one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophies take water as a metaphor. According to James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing, "The supreme being is like water. The greatness of water appears in its success in all things, and in its occupation, without struggling (in any way), the lower place that is disliked by all. Therefore (its path) is close to (the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world more weak and vulnerable than water, but for attacking things that are solid and strong nothing can precede them - because nothing (essentially) can be changed." the people of different regions of China in terms of local water resources
The "living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living water and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept of magical water that is supposed to prevent aging. Model and operation
In the modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" represents a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called "water of praise". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", but its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, shake and swell, gather and break, until they taste the calm quiescence of the end 'pestilential fens, waded flowers, stagnant pools in the waning moon is considerable to the waning moon. Ithaca, and according to the author of the writer Hugh Kenner, achieved "the inappropriateness of raising all the information of the feet is collected in textbooks." The theme of water represents the theme of the story "forever, forever," and the hymn represents the climax of the story back to the water? Its general position: its democratic equality and stability in its nature in finding its own position: its width in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its depth in the Sundam sea of the Pacific is more than 8,000 the height of its waves is more than 8,000 in its height the water at low tide: its turbulence in the water and the spring tide: its fall after destruction: its injury in the circumpolar, arctic and Antarctic ice: its value and commercial value: its height of the ground over 3 extended in square leagues over all the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the telesecular stability of its original water reservoir: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all the solutes including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its smooth movement of peninsulas and under its weight and weight: its total weight and weight lagoons and highlands: its classification of colors in hot and cold climates and cold zones: its effects of traffic in the continental lake of streams and rivers mixed with the sea and their shores and waters: gulfstream, north and south equatorial path: its turbulence in earthquakes, fountains, fountains, spates, waterfalls, waterspouts, geysers, cataracts, tornadoes, maelstroms, inundations, floods, cloudbursts: its great circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secret in springs, and latent moisture, expressed by the rhabdomantic wall and exemplified by the wall of the rhabdomantic or hyemplmetric filling of the air, clean the dew: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its pure suspensions: its evaporation in the waters of the Dead Sea: its evaporation in canals, creeks, lack of water, flow on the boat: its properties such as cleaning and extinguishing fire examples and examples: its symbolic form like steam, fog, clouds, rain, dew, snow, hail: its power in hard waters: its various meanings in waters and bays and gulfs and storms and springs and lagoons and islands and sounds and fjords and minches and its strong banks: icefloes: its power in working bicycle wheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its use in canals, rivers, when sailing, floating and engraving: its capacity is obtained from harnessed tides or drop channels from the surface level, small garden, garden garden, garden garden, garden garden, garden garden, garden garden, garden garden (farming) of course, the people of the globe: its ubiquity covers 90% of the human body: its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, temporary pools in the disappearing moon for the Cathedral's year-long exhibition on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever shown at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola, a collective of artists who use water as their subject. or a way. Participants include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark 10 years of access to water and sanitation recognized as a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in many hoaxes and satires to mock illiteracy. This started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day story appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The misinformation includes safety concerns about the drug. Music
The word "Water" was used by many Florida-based rappers as a kind of statement or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To move forward some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to water in Florida, like the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Information
Identity
Work mentioned
Read more
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Series: Water Conflict Archives Archive 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
USGS (USGS)
Portal to World Bank guidance, work and publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water online
Water systems and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Organization for the Properties of Liquids and Vapors Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary