Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of Earth's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, is subject to strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface is relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (composed of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. Approximately 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is carried by ship through seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of entertainment, such as swimming, pleasure boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰🐍🐍 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European (Super-Indo-European, from suffwixw. 'wet'). Also related, via Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Old Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian νερώ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian water. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a blue tint. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal Earth conditions. the states
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. Adding or removing heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known natural substance that does this in the liquid state. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becoming less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert great pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of shrinking and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms that inhabit the lakes would disappear during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve a noticeable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure, so the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    c
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    c
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                p
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phase, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            p
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under fairly thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, the temperature can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be compressed or expanded gradually between gas- and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several others have been predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a superionic, face-centered cubic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of solid oxygen atoms into which free hydrogen atoms flow. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and aromas. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to judge the potability of water to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water set against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are shades of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be modified from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower shades of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for aqueous solution cuvette windows. Active fundamental Raman vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.621) and 4 common types of glass. The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of an oxygen-centered tetrahedron. In the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also gives off many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide—the latter providing the gas in sodas, sparkling wines, and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, dissolve in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena essential to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its extremely high heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to an O–H covalent bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is supported by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water undergoes only a decrease in volume of 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (approximately 0.03 dB/km per 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate volume of Earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or pond. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects the patterns of failure. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other water bodies into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff into the sea, about 47 Tt per year, while evaporation and transpiration occurring over land masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, with a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with a contribution from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often collects on catchments that drain into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment by creating river valleys and deltas which provide rich soil and level ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water, which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage in water supply. This occurs when a region receives consistently below average rainfall either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural sources of water that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water appears as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored over thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant portion of the water supply for some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks are depleted. According to some estimates, up to 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride, plus smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)), and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, rather than reaching its maximum density at a temperature above freezing. The salinity of water in the main seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is really a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth, coupled with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The tidally submerged and tidally exposed strip of seashore, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many distinct properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow reproduction. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg starches, triglycerides and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to generate smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes could not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion donor (H+, that is, a proton), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered to be neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in an ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates display a wide range of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see siphons of insects and molluscs) and gills (Carcinus). However, while invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, was located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians depended entirely on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC – c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the tributaries that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have thrived for the same reason. In places such as North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Water that is not potable can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Wash water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it come from uneven natural distribution in space and time, growing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set water Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the percentage of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards this goal has been uneven and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with roughly a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of them withdraw more water annually than is replenished through their natural water cycles. The species not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most substantial human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying and distributing water and disposing of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, creating the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-hungry meat consumption expands, and new demands grow for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and identified countries suffering from water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity make it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it would be possible to produce the food required in the future, but that continuing today's food production and environmental trends would lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to try to increase productivity to meet growing demands for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Considerable environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one-hundredth of a meter, and at the melting temperature of ice." However, for practical purposes, a metallic reference standard, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram, was required. Therefore, the work was set to determine exactly the mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram defined water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of water's highest density, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, precisely defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also has a small amount of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the standard specification for Vienna medium ocean water. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 liters (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than they should during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" appears to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that excessive water intake, particularly up to 500 milliliters (18 ml oz; 17 fl oz) during a meal, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "A common standard for different persons is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." The most recent Dietary Reference Intakes report from the US National Research Council generally recommended, based on average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 impi. gal; 0.71 which contains approximately no water for women, 0.71 which contains no total water in 19% of food). total water consumption in the survey. In particular, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The American Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 US gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 US gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 plant gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that normally, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through perspiration and exhalation of water vapor in breathing. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. People need water with little dirt. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest source (by volume) of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical uses
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions it is not usually used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently been a topic of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water may even be available naturally from a lake or the sea. It is particularly effective at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. A disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and coolant (used to exchange residual heat in a body of water or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest use of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are favored for stopping a reaction and it is preferred to keep the core covered with water in order to ensure proper cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float on water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the risks of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in enclosed spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal or coke graphite, decompose the gas water. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from extinguishing the fire, but from the reactor's water cooling system itself. A steam explosion occurred when extreme overheating of the core caused water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between steam and hot zircon. Some metal oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are submerged, they can ignite as their contents react with the water. Recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature or as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection tanks, water supply networks and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, drawn from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate locations is thus a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide an adequate flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can include the removal of undigested substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which removes only undigested material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, delivery by tanker or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy free of charge. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water for human consumption only is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant restricts other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter into standard market cost accounting, being conceived of as externalities for which the market cannot account. Thus, others pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local population, the victim of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in aqueous sludge, or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source and often causing significant water pollution. Water is used in energy production. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydropower plants. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a low-cost, non-polluting and renewable source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically a dam is built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water penetration and water cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and is not harmful to the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques in both supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure occurring at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower water activity - this is important to know because the growth of most bacteria ceases at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in sewage. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, a single kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water is produced quickly in this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and that of other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar components. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in distinct trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in small amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and that of her moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Uranus' atmosphere - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half the stars of T Tauri such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean approximately 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between ice and high-pressure rock. water ice
Water is present as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mostly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects associated with the Kuiper belt and the Oort cloud
And it is also present in:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatile substances probably make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deepest layers may be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules dissolve into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three forms to be present simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to maintain an atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin atmospheres or none at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) which helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is the policy affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but an estimated one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The percentage of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report stated that water is sufficient for all, but is sufficient for all. N. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments powerless to act. The authors of the Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture 2007 cited poor governance as a reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions about water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing the processes that work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is an example; a review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely undertaken. They also found that Cambodia's water bill was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations dealing with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is held on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity had entered the era of "water bankruptcy", because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure places, 4 billion people experience water at least once a year. 307 billion dollars per year. He called for policies that match reality and not the norms of the past. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleanser in most religions. Beliefs that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or immersion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions, including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (ablution), unless water is not available (see Tajemmum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (eg, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, the blessing of persons, places and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as a ylem, or basic substance, of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated water with phlegm as cold and wet. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's translation of the Dao De Jing in 1891 says: "The highest perfection is like (that of) water. The perfection of water appears in its benefit to all things, and in its occupying, without striving (on the contrary), the low place which all men dislike." Therefore (his path) is close to (that of) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack things that are strong and strong there is nothing that can take advantage of it - for there is nothing (so effective) that it can be changed for." attributing the natural qualities of the people of different Chinese regions to the character of the local water sources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept associated with magical waters that are supposed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply a "monotonous string of facts," rather its phrases, like their theme, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they sink into the quiet stillness of the closing phrase "the noxious furnaces, the flower-faded, stagnant water." extraordinary passages in Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of raising into poetry all the clutter of information that has accumulated in textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life", and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. Below is the quoted hymn in full. What in the water did Bloom, the water-worshipper, the water-drawer, the stream-turning water-carrier, admire? His universality: his democratic equality and steadfastness to his nature in his level quest: his infinity in the ocean of Mercator's projection: his unripe depth in the Sundam trench of Pacific fat. the particles visiting in turn all points of the sea-coast: the independence of its units: the changeability of the states of the sea: the hydrostatic calm in the calm: the hydrokinetic turbidity in the rapid and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar, arctic, and antarctic glaciers: its climatic sign preliminary and dry to the earth3: the globe: its undisputed hegemony extending to square leagues throughout the region below the sub-equatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-secular stability of its primary basin: its luteofulv bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: slow down in its all-round penance. deposits: its weight, volume and density: its instability in lagoons and highland ruins: gradation of colors in hot and mild and cold zones: its vehicle ramifications in the continental lake containing streams and rivers flowing from the ocean with their tributaries and their currents in the south and its transoceanic currents in the north. sea-earthquakes, water currents, artesian wells, eruptions, streams, eddies, freshets, ripples, rivulets, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, whirlpools, inundations, inundations, cloud-bursts: its great circular hole at its sources, the horizon discovered by rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments, and illustrated by boreholes on the wall at the gate of Ashtown, the saturation of the air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its watery buoyancy at sea more and more: its constant buoyancy at sea. wrecks, pits, inadequate dykes, shipboard leaks: its cleansing properties, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as paradigm and example: its metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in hard and strong gulf forms: inlets and bowels and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds, fjords and inlets and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its stability in glaciers, icebergs, ice floats: its persuasion in the operation of water mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, its electric power stations, canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and burial docks: its potential derived from harnessed tides or water currents falling from level to level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as the invariable of the human body 90: lake swamps, pestilential armpits, faded flower water, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated "The Value of Water" at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which anchored a year-long initiative by the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever shown at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
"Dihydrogen monoxide" is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a number of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Site
FAO's comprehensive database, AQUASTAT
Timeline of Water Conflict: The Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Science (USGS)
Portal of the World Bank's water resources strategy, work and publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary