Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and colorless substance. It is a major part of the Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the water of all known living things, which acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is very useful for its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its universality, and its strong polarity according to its molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's temperature and pressure are close to the three zones of water, water exists on Earth as solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of water and aerosols in the form of mist. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice, its density. If finely divided, crystalline ice can fall as snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 75% of the Earth's surface, oceans and seas make up the majority of water (about 96.5%). Smaller amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and glaciers of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (which include ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves constantly through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually to the ocean. Water plays an important role in the economy of the world. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by barge across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industries and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also among the many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, rafting, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skiing, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-weti for water,' 'suffid-or' root of water',' root of Proto-Indo-European *wod-ed (') of water. Also cognate, via an Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless and bright blue. A simple hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it does not dissolve non-polar substances. This allows it to be a "dissolution of life": in fact, water as it is found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain pure chemical water. Water is the only substance that can exist as a solid, liquid, and gas in the natural world. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the water component of H2O. The two most common forms of liquid matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within a certain temperature range; it is the only known natural phenomenon that does this in the presence of water. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes more scarce as it cools, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above freezing at 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (does less) until it reaches its freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the water content decreases. When it is cold and snowy, water increases by 917%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This increase can cause high pressures, pipe bursts and rock cracks. As a solid, it shows a normal tendency to work and increase in hardness as it cools. These unusual temperatures have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the water. This ice protects the water below, preventing freezing. Without this protection, many aquatic organisms living in lakes would perish during the winter. In addition, this mysterious phenomenon is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that spreads heat around the earth's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, a superconducting magnet can achieve an appreciable interaction. Phase transitions
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn to vapor above it and evaporate (vaporization in all liquids is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur in place. For example, snow is deposited on a cold surface when ice is formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the process of freezing, the frozen food is then kept at a temperature so that the ice on the surface stabilizes. Melting and boiling are pressure dependent. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\showstyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\showstyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid components, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of dissolution. In most materials, clay expands when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, melting can occur under thick layers of snow, creating lakes below the ice. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in water at high temperatures in deep oceans or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. High pressure cooking takes longer than sea level cooking. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time should be increased by a quarter to get the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by raising the cooking temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Three and important points
On the pressure/temperature diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at the same point called the triangle, where all three parts can be present. The third zone is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/vapor phase limit is 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as a special place. At high temperatures and pressures water and vapor form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be slowly compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its behavior (which is very different from that of deep water) is sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including many organic compounds. This makes it important in a variety of applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, decomposition and deposition. Parts of snow and water
The ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a component that forms six-sided crystals. One with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystalline structures. As of 2024, 20 confirmed experiments and several predicted. The 18th form of ice, ice XVIII, face-centred-cubic, superionic ice phase, was found when a drop of water was subjected to a shock that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of solid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The chemical composition of water is not well understood; some theories show that its unusual behavior is caused by the presence of two water bodies. Taste and smell
Fresh water is often described as unpleasant and odorless, although humans with special sensors can feel the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can give it a variety of tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed brains that allow them to assess the ability of water to avoid water that is too salty or polluted. Color and appearance
Fresh water appears blue due to absorption of light in the environment c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of water placed against a pure white background, during the day. The major absorption bands associated with color are overtones of the O-H stretching vibration. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool if the source of light is sunlight reflected from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the high concentration of water means that glass cuvettes with short path-lengths can be used. To observe the absorption value of water or liquid solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is another ingredient commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) in depth. The refractive index of water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), 1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and available for glass (1.6 type). The refraction index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on the oxygen. For the other two angles there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not combine in a bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the distance between the lone pairs is greater than the distance between the hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Some elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen has a higher electronegativity than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atom has a negative charge. Together with the curved shape, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, it dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules like sugar and simple alcohol like ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving the fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and parts of these biomacromolecules form protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other activities important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as oils and fats and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting point and boiling point of water is much higher than that of other similar compounds like hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), thermal conductivity (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties allow water to play a role in balancing the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is caused by electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the high water tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by any vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-, as well as a solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small ionic substances such as common salt. Water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Water can be considered incompressible for many purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 kilometers, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water without attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km of 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic substances that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, another carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland water is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are in the focus of ecohydrology. The amount of water found above, below, and above the earth's surface is called the hydrosphere. The total amount of groundwater (total water on earth) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, lake, or lake. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water is also found in the atmosphere in solid air, water, and vapor. It is also found as groundwater in waterways. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. The water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in the lower parts of the earth. On Earth, water is essential in both the chemical and physical processes of the climate. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, ice, also causes a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the surface of the earth. Deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the air, groundwater, surface water, underground, and plants. Water moves endlessly through each of these areas in a water cycle that involves the following transport processes:

transpiration from oceans and other bodies of water into the atmosphere and transpiration from plants and animals. rain, from water vapor that curls up from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. flow from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water found in the ocean returns to it, but the winds carry water vapor over the land at a rate similar to the flow of water in the ocean, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and evaporation that occurs in the ground also provides another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, is of several types: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with contributions from fog and dew. Small condensed water droplets form when the high temperature vapor comes into contact with a cool surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when the temperature is low, just after sunrise and when the surface temperature starts to rise. Condensed water in the atmosphere can also reflect sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff usually collects on the surface of water flowing in rivers. Through erosion, flowing water shapes the landscape creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and a level surface for the establishment of local settlements. Floods occur when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surges. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when an area experiences a shortage of water. This happens when a region receives below average rainfall due to its location or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are water resources that can benefit people, for example as a source of drinking water or for irrigation. Water is available as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world's total fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent is in groundwater; and 1 percent remains in lakes, rivers, air, and biota. The length of time that water is stored varies: some wells have water stored for thousands of years, but the level of the reservoirs can fluctuate according to the seasons, decreasing during the dry season and increasing during the rainy season. A large part of the water supply in some regions consists of water taken from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed restoration, stocks decrease. By some estimates, up to 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable withdrawals of groundwater, resulting in groundwater depletion. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus some other impurities. The quality of sea water differs from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to freezing temperatures, rather than becoming denser at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the oceans varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is a true salt sea.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the strong winds of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of oceans and seas and produce circulating currents known as tidal currents. Changes in the tides produced at a given location are the result of changes in the positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth as well as the effects of the Earth's rotation and the tides. The coastline is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, an important natural feature of the ocean's tides. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are important for the proliferation of life. It does this by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which most of the body's fluids dissolve and as an important part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storage of fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for metabolism for energy or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from the air or water) to form sugars and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel and oxidize the hydrogen and carbon to absorb solar energy and process water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water also mediates acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H +, that is, a proton) donor, can be reduced by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal environment. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The water above the earth is full of life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many species of marine animals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and the rest on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of other underwater life. Plankton is usually the base of the ocean's food chain. Aquatic animals need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine animals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to open their mouths periodically to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of adaptations to survive in oxygen-free water with air including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life has evolved in an aquatic environment, many have little or no knowledge of breathing in water. Effects on human productivity
Development has historically thrived around rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called beginnings of civilization, was between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early civilization of the Indus Valley (c. 3300 BCE - about 1300 BCE) began near the Indus River and the rivers that flowed out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Big cities like Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access to water and increased trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is very scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is the main factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be produced by filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but does not harm people when swimming or bathing is called by different names other than drinking or drinking water, and sometimes it is called clean water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is often monitored by government regulations (typically one part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of chlorine before wastewater treatment). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually wastewater, also called municipal waste) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-stressed countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a resource that can be recycled, repeated by the natural hydrologic cycle, but the pressure on its availability is caused by the uneven natural distribution in space and time, the economic growth demanded by agriculture and industry, and the population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to clean, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations created the Millennium Development Goals to halve by the year 2015 the number of people in the world without access to clean water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to clean and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Bad water and bad sanitation are deadly; 5 million deaths a year are caused by waterborne diseases. The World Health Organization says that clean water can prevent up to 1.4 million children who die of diarrhea every year. In developing countries, 90% of municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about one-third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of them take more water every year than is recharged by their actual water supply. This hardening not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human resources
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of all human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the "consumable" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, treat, and deliver water, and to remove waste. But economic growth, population, and climate are increasing concerns about water issues, resulting in increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of high water. As the population and economy continue to grow, the consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demands rise for biofuels or new industries that use water, new water problems may arise. A survey of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the country has enough water to feed a growing population. It analyzed the current availability of agricultural water around the world and identified areas with water scarcity problems. It found that one fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas with a lack of real water, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically water-scarce areas, where lack of water resources or insufficient population make it impossible to meet water demand. The report found that it would lead to food needs in the future, but that continuing today's food production and environmental practices would lead to misery in many parts of the world. In order to avoid the global water crisis, farmers will have to try to increase yields to get more food, while industries and cities find ways to use water efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—equivalent to a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton has 2.4% of the water used in the world, water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water shortage. Great environmental damage was caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton led to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as being equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters, and at the temperature of the melting of ice". For such applications, a reference metal was needed, a thousand times, the kilogram. So the task was given to accurately determine the volume of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the gram's definition mentioned water at 0 ° C (32 ° F) - the most reproducible temperature - scientists decided to define the standard and make their measurements at the most common water temperature, which was measured at the time as 4 ° C (39 ° F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The absolute temperature scale has the same scale as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the behavior of water. Water from rivers and lakes has fewer isotopes than seawater. Therefore, normal water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. To drink
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can be anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) of water for adults and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The actual amount depends on the amount of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are ingested through food or beverages other than drinking straight water. The medical literature recommends a low intake, usually a liter of water for the average man, excluding other needs due to water loss from exercise or extreme heat. Healthy kidneys can produce 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that increasing water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, is associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps in preventing constipation. The original recommendation for drinking water was in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. The National Research Council said: "The average daily intake for most people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is in processed foods." The current reference for food intake of the US National Research Council was recommended, based on the amount of water taken from US food data (including food): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 of water) which is 19% of the water supplied by 19 women. of the amount of water taken in the survey. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need more water to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as more water is lost during breastfeeding. Also noteworthy is that in general, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (caffeinated included). Water is removed from the body in many ways; by urine and faeces, by perspiration, and by inhalation of water vapor in the breath. With physical activity and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily water needs may increase as well. People want water with less impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are welcome and even needed to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) body of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is used mainly in chemical reactions as a drug or reactant and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In the process of neutralization, water dissolves, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds that are closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is rarely used as a solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these things are sometimes desirable. Also, the acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction with water has been observed. Supercritical fluid has recently become a topic of research. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water burns organic pollutants well. Heat exchange
Water and sulfur are common fluids used in heat exchange, due to their presence and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water can be obtained from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective in transporting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its high thermal conductivity. The downside is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as working water (used in a closed-loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and cooling (used to exchange waste heat to a body of water or transport it out of a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, the water is cooled and contains a moderator. This provides something of a safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction down. However other methods are preferred for stopping the reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. The concept of fire
Water has a high boiling point and is shallow, which makes it a good firefighting water. The outflow of water carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and solvents because many organic substances float on the surface of the water and the water tends to spread the hot water. The use of water in fire fighting must also consider the risks of air explosions, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in closed areas, and of hydrogen explosions, when things that come into contact with water, such as other metals or hot carbon like coal, coal, or coke graphite, decompose water, releasing water gas. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from the fire but from the reactor itself cooling water. The explosion occurred when the high temperature of the core caused the water to flash into smoke. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction between hot air and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat relative to water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these get wet, they can catch fire as their contents enter the water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, including exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, waterskiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water to be calming, and fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorative items. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in their aquatic habitats in lakes or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. People also use water for winter sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a constant temperature, either ice or frozen. The water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting tanks, water networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old canals. Wind turbine generators are in development. Drinking water is usually collected at springs, drawn from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right places is therefore a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the wells can provide sufficient water flow. Other sources of water include the collection of rainwater. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful bacteria. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation does all three functions. Other advanced methods are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of most seawater is the most cost-effective solution used in dry sea areas. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, transport tanks or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to provide water to the poor for free. Reducing consumption by using only potable (potable) water for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution is probably the single biggest misuse of water; to the extent that the pollutant restricts further use of the water, which is a waste of the source, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter the standard accounting of market prices, being treated as an externality that the market cannot account for. So some people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to the local residents, who are victims of this pollution. Chemicals ingested by humans often end up in water and can harm aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and do not decompose. Public and industrial water is often treated at wastewater treatment plants. Reducing surface water pollution is achieved through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on the process of using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and remove materials, or wash products or manufacture machinery. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use a lot of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water that flows out of the reservoir is forced through turbines that turn generators. Compressed water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It works very well, is safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in the cooling of machines to prevent overheating, or to protect saws from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, as well as its use as a chemical agent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of cleaning techniques both in the water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and steaming are popular cooking methods that often require submerging food in water or its gaseous, powdery state. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles within the field of food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar found in water affect the water quality. The boiling and freezing point of water is affected by solutes, as well as atmospheric pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature and the lower air pressure occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the concentration of dissolved particles decreases the freezing point of the water. Solutes in water also affect the reaction of water affecting many chemical reactions and the growth of bacteria in food. The reaction of water can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in the solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity—this is important to note because most bacterial growth is limited at low levels of water activity. It is not only the growth of bacteria that affects food safety, but also the storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can seriously affect the quality of the product, as well as play a role in hygiene. The hardness of water is classified according to the amount of calcium carbonate that the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of cattle requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and a situation that takes into account the amount of water used in cattle production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
Space
Most of the water in the atmosphere is created as a result of the formation of stars. Star formation is accompanied by a powerful wind out of gas and dust. When these outflows impact the surrounding gas, shock waves are created to compress and heat the gas. A liquid is observed that is quickly formed in the warm dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been abundant throughout the world for its entire existence". Water has been found in the interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies, too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Depending on the composition and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, many other planetary systems may have similar properties. Water powder
Water exists as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in the visible range of research
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and most of the water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Surface air: ≈0.40% above full air, usually 1–4% above
The Moon's atmosphere: in pursuit of mass
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in winter; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - winter only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (sea floor)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in search of volume below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune - found in deep layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: it is not limited to cool stars and has already been observed in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water water
Water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes found in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in the Saturnian moon of Enceladus, as a thick ocean about 10 kilometers, about 30 to 40 kilometers below Enceladus' south polar surface, and Titan, as it is deep down, probably mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that indicate an underwater ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a spring embedded between ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice at:

 Mars: under the regolith and on the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper in the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: The location of Europa and also that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the lower and upper ring system and the mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it may also be available at:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic forms
Water and other explosives may comprise much of the interior of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be ionized water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as surface water where the oxygen is bright, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen. Water and earth life
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it was a little closer or farther away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to exist at the same time would not have a chance to exist. The size of the soil also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold air, including moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a protective temperature (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a stable temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on earth depends on the pressure of the atmosphere, which is determined by the gravity of the earth. If the world is large enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as seen on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is the politics of the world affected by water and water resources. Water, especially clean water, is a global resource and a key factor in many political conflicts. It causes health damage and damage to various organisms. Access to clean drinking water has improved over the past decades in all parts of the world, but about 1 billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some researchers say that by the year 2025, more than half of the people in the world will be facing water problems. The report, published in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing areas of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. About 1.6 billion people have had access to clean water since 1990. The number of people in developing countries with access to clean water has improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. The 2006 United Nations report stated that water is adequate. for mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, leaving many donors working in overlapping projects and recipient governments lacking the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited governance as another cause of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is about knowing which practices work best in a given physical and social and economic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to use 'plans' that work in developed countries to improve places and conditions around the world. The Mekong River is another example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water supply found that comprehensive and transparent cost assessments and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's water extraction law was more complicated than it should have been. In 2004, UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, published by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop policies that protect water. The 2023 report states that 2 billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. People in cities (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages are said to be chronic, due to overuse and pollution. This document states that 10% of the world's people live in countries with severe or severe water scarcity. However, in the last 40 years, water use has increased by around 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have increased fourfold, while floods in the northern mid-latitudes have increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 165 million deaths. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute conducts projects with the aim of using water management effectively to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is held on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations announced that people have entered a period of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have decreased since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without water protection, 4 billion people experience a shortage of water 7 months a month. year. It wanted laws to be in line with current events and not old customs. In the tradition
Religion
Water is said to purify in many churches. Religions that include ritual bathing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or immersion) of a person in water is a central Christian sacrament (where it is called baptism); It is also part of the ritual of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, the practice of bathing in clean water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam the five daily prayers can be performed usually after washing other parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (for example, in the ritual of the sogi). In Christianity, holy water is water purified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four primordial elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the most important element of all creation. Thales, portrayed by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, said that the earth, which is thicker than water, came out of water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things are made from water. Plato believed that the shape of water is a cosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the eight body parts involved water and phlegm, such as cold and dampness. The ancient element of water was also one of the five elements in Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some ancient and popular Asian philosophical traditions take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest goodness is like (that of) water. The goodness of water is seen in its helpfulness to all things, and in its holding, without trying (to be different), the lowest place that all men do not want. Therefore (its way) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing on earth that is softer and weaker than water, and yet against strong and strong things nothing can take before it-for nothing (successful) can be changed. of different Chinese regions to the status of local water resources
"Living water" is found in Germanic and Slavic texts as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the collective concept of a magical water that is said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modern story Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" contains a catechism of 399 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, this song is not only a true string, but, its lines, according to their study, "ebb and flow, rise and swell, gather and break, until they subside in the calmness of the ending 'plague of diseases, withered water of flowers, calm of water of the moon" seen as the flood of the moon. remarkable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, he achieves "the unthinkable task of raising to poetry all the footnotes collected in schoolbooks." The text of the water text represents the theme of the novel "eternal life, ever changing," and this song represents the end of the text in the book. The following is the song spoken in full. What is in the water that Bloom, the lover of water, the water-drawer, the water-carrier, returns to the place? revisiting all the points of its sea: the independence of its parts: the diversity of the sea states: its hydrostatic quiescence in the calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in the near and spring tides: its decline after the destruction: its deterioration in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and the calmness of the beginning of the antarctic: its strength and trade of 3. the complex of the world: the indisputable hegemony that extends in a square league in all the area below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the unique stability of its primary basin: its clear bed: its ability to melt and hold in the solution all the soluble substances including millions of tons of very precious metals and decrease its depth: alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: its impossibility in lakes and high tarns: its stability of colors in the terrible and calm and cold places: its car designs in the continental sea with rivers and the flowing rivers of the sea with their rivers, flowing grapes and the south: chaos and the south. earthquakes, fountains of water, fountains of water, eruptions, rivers, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, rain, water, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, rains, floods, cloudbursts: its greatness in the world of the world, expressed in the deep air, protected, by the depth of the tent: rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and illustrated by the well and the hole in the wall of Ashtown gate, fullness of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its healing qualities: its flight in the waters of the Dead Sea, it penetrates the waters of the Dead Sea: lakes, dripping on board ships: its properties of cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, healing plants: its infallibility as a paradigm and paragon: metamorphoses as fog, mist, cloud, rain, snow, snow, hail: its power in complex dams: its various forms in the necks and bursts of water. and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power plants, bleachworks, tanneries, scutch rivers, boats, water boats graving docks: its ability comes from tied waves or waterways that fall from one level to another level: its underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) the number, if not the exact number, of the inhabitants of the world: its fullness as it constitutes 90% of the human body: the abuse of its water, the flowers of the flowing water of the lake stand still in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster preserved the Importance of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which sponsored a year-long project with the Cathedral on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever seen at the Cathedral, it featured more than 40 artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an environmental collection of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark 10 years of access to water and sanitation as a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid has commissioned 10 artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a correct but rarely used name for water. The name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake news included safety issues about the item. Vadivelu Comedy Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida based rappers as a catch or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Continuing some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to water in Florida, like the 2023 song Danny Towers "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
The works mentioned
More reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Total Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine. School of water science (USGS)
Portal to The World Bank's strategy, work and related documents on water
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
The nature of water and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most mysterious things in the world", Tips, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association of Water and Steam Buildings Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine. H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, the 2020 PBS documentary