Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent chemical substance, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless. It is a major constituent of earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known life forms, although it does not provide food energy or serve as organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide availability, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent." Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to water's triple point, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are also made up of water droplets and ice, its solid state. If divided finely, crystalline ice can be deposited in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas making up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). A small part of water occurs as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as steam, clouds (made up of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water flows continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water is used by humans for agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh water has been, and continues to be, the main source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by ship through seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for various substances, both mineral and organic; As such, it is widely used in industrial processes and cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also important for many other sports and pastimes, such as swimming, yachting, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *woded-water-or (root suffixed', or). Also cognate, through Indo-European roots, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" due to its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is bad at dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to become the "solvent of life": in fact, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. United States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense because it is cold in a certain temperature range; it is the only natural substance known to do so while liquid. In addition, it is not unusual because it becomes significantly less dense because it freezes, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can exert enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it shows the usual behavior of contracting and becoming more solid when cold. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at a temperature of 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms residing in the lake will perish during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around our planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with a superconducting magnet can achieve notable interaction. Phase transition
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or frozen water (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and boiling water or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn into steam on the water surface by evaporation (vaporization throughout the liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on aerosol particles or ice cores. In the freeze-drying process, the frozen food is then placed under low pressure so that the ice on the surface of the water sublimates. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 is the molar volume of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, its melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting pressure can occur in a fairly thick volume of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, the temperature exceeds 205 °C (401 °F) in Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple point and critical
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. It meets at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can live together. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascal (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to determine the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like density; its properties (which are slightly different from ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a crystal-forming phase with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. In 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and several more theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered superionic ice phase, is found when water droplets are subjected to shock waves that raise the water pressure to millions of atmospheres and the temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a rigid structure of oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms move freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is usually described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give it a variety of tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the potability of water to prevent water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water looks blue because it absorbs light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption band responsible for the color is the O-H stretching vibrational tone. The apparent intensity of color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to the swimming pool if the light source is sunlight reflected from the pool's white tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with shorter path-lengths can be used. To observe the absorption spectrum along the base of water or aqueous solution in the area around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and not soluble in water; calcium fluoride is one of the commonly used materials for cuvette windows with water solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches the part of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. molecular polarity
In the water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms close to the two corners of the tetrahedron are centered on oxygen. In the other two corners there is a lone pair of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms will form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so oxygen atoms are partially negatively charged while hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is an excellent polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interaction between water and biomacromolecular subunits forms protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena that are important for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonds
Due to its polarity, water molecules in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that pull the molecules together in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. It also explains the unusually high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to covalent O–H bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is caused by electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. This bond results in high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is shared by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, in combination with the solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic materials such as common salts. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen elements by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in the ocean at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water only reduces its volume by 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of groundwater distribution and movement is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, land water is limnology and ocean distribution is oceanography. Ecological and hydrological processes are in focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water that is on, under, and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The estimated volume of earth's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or ponds. The majority of water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser extent but still significant, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the surface of the earth. The deposition of transported sediment forms various types of sedimentary rocks, which compose the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water flows perpetually through each of these areas in the water cycle consisting of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from the ocean and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensation from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. runoff from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but the wind carries water vapor over land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occur on land also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Rainfall, at a rate of 119 Tt per year on land, has several forms: the most common is rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when high water vapor density meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Water flows often collect through watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff forms the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its bank or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, drought is a long period of months or years when an area notes a shortage in its water supply. This happens when an area receives consistently below average precipitation either due to topography or due to its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere, and biota. The length of time the water remains in storage is very variable: some aquifers are made up of water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake can fluctuate on a seasonal basis, decreasing in the dry season and increasing in the wet season. A large fraction of the water supply for some areas consists of water extracted from the water stored in the stock, and when the withdrawals exceed the recharge, the stock decreases. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, plus small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in several important ways. It freezes at lower temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the main sea varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity level between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tides. The change in tide produced in a given location is the result of the change in the position of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth coupled with the effect of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The intertidal zone is an important ecological product of the ocean tides. Influence on life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are important for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately enables replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg starch, triglycerides, and proteins to store fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce small molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, this particular metabolic process would not exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. Acids, hydrogen ions (H+, ie protons) donors, can be neutralized by bases, proton acceptors such as hydroxide ions (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 under ideal conditions. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a value greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
Earth's surface water is teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for many underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a number of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show various modifications to survive in water with less oxygen including breathing tubes (see insects and siphon mollusks) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolves in aquatic habitats, most have little or no specialization for respiration in water. Influence on human civilization
Civilization historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, is situated between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient society of Egypt depended entirely on the Nile. The beginning of the Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BC - c. 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flow out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber river. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands and safe water ports, such as Singapore, have developed for similar reasons. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made by filtration or distillation, or by some other method. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is referred to by various names other than potable or potable water, sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted and impure chlorine for bathing water). Water for bathing can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressure over access to it is the result of uneven natural distribution in space and time, the growth of economic demands by agriculture and industry, and rising population. Today, nearly a billion people around the world lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to reduce by half by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are death; approximately five million deaths per year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these extract more water each year than is replenished through their natural water cycle. The strain not only affects surface fresh water bodies like rivers and lakes, but also damages ground water sources. Human benefits
Agriculture
The most important human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but the majority of water "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, purify, and deliver water, and dispose of wastewater. But economic, demographic, and climate pressures are growing more and more concerned about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As the population and the economy continue to grow, the consumption of water-thirsty meat expands, and new demands rise for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are possible. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world had enough water to provide food for its population. It assessed current water availability for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water shortages. It was found that a fifth of people in the world, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. More than 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of water investment or insufficient human capacity make it difficult for authorities to satisfy water demand. The report found that it will be able to produce the food it needs in the future, but continuing current food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet food demands, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the same as a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of world water use, water is consumed in areas already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton is responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth of a meter cube, and at the melting temperature of ice". For practical purposes though, a metal reference standard is needed, a thousand times more massive, the kilogram. So work assigned to determine the exact mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the decreed definition of the gram is filled with water at 0 °C (32 °F)-a very reproducible temperature-scientists chose to redefine the standard and do their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was measured at 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale in the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined at exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined according to the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water mainly consists of isotopes of hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of heavier isotopes of oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tend to contain isotopes less heavy than sea water. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily water intake of 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through food or drinks other than drinking water directly. Medical literature favors low consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than they need during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "people should consume eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no basis in science. Studies show that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The usual standard for the average person is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this quantity is contained in prepared foods." The latest dietary reference intake report by the US National Research Council is generally recommended, based on the average amount of water intake from the US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) for women, not containing water 9% of the total water provided by 1% water. total water intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. On average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), since a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during nursing. about 20% of water intake comes from drinking water (including caffeine); through sweating, and exhalation of water vapor. Humans need water with little excrement; chemical compounds such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for taste enhancement. The largest fresh water source (by volume) that is suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. However, this property is sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Supercritical water has recently become a research topic. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. Heat exchange
Water and steam are commonly used fluids for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can even be naturally available from lakes or seas. Especially effective for transporting heat through vaporization and condensation of water because of the large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and coolant (used to exchange waste heat into the body of water or take it away by evaporation in the cooling tower). In the United States, power plant cooling is the largest water user. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and moderator. This provides something about passive safety measures, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are more likely to stop the reaction and prefer to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. fire consideration
It has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing liquid. Evaporation of water carries heat from fire. The danger of using water on fires involving oil and organic solvents is that many organic materials float in water and water tends to spread flammable liquids. The use of water in fire extinguishing must also take into account the danger of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or graphite coke, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from fire-fighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when extreme overheating of the core causes water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion can occur as a result of the reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in the reaction with water that a fire hazard can develop. Alkaline earth lime oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are absorbed, they can ignite when the contents react with water. Recreation
Humans use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercising and sports. Some of them are swimming, waterskiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakes, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water calming, and fountains and other water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun, and companionship. Humans also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water at low temperatures either as ice or crystallized into snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, tanks for rainwater harvesting, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old water channels. Atmospheric water generators are under construction. Drinking water is often collected in springs, extracted from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate places is a possible way to produce more water, if the aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may involve removing insoluble matter, dissolved matter and harmful microbes. A popular method is filtering with sand which removes only the insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need at no cost. Reducing consumption by using drinking (drinking) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution may be the single biggest misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits for the pollutant. As with other types of pollution, this does not include the standard accounting of market costs, which are conceived as externalities that the market cannot account for. Therefore other people pay the price of water pollution, while private companies' profits are not redistributed to the local population, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is addressed by various prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using water-soluble chemicals, solid suspensions in aqueous slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper manufacturing, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, require dedicated water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in power plants. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectric power plants. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a renewable, non-polluting, cheap source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water that flows out of the lake is forced through a turbine that turns a generator. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water gun is used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in engine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to being used as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses various purification techniques both in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require cooking food in water or a gaseous, steamy state. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as is air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at a lower temperature and lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect the activity of water which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water lower water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. The hardness of water is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or treated by using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect product quality, as well as play a role in sanitation. The hardness of water is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the author also explained that this is a global average and the situation factor determines the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When the outflow of this material eventually affects the surrounding gas, the shock wave created cools and heats the gas. Water is observed to be rapidly produced in this warm solid gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water may exist in abundance in other galaxies, too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar materials. Water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in trace amounts can be detected
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, and most of the water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% more than the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - in ice only; and the moon is Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - in ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deeper layers
Atmospheres of extrasolar planets: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disk: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on Saturn's moon Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of the south pole of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate the presence of liquid water oceans beneath the surface. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice layers on Earth and in Moon craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's Moons: The Surfaces of Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other Kuiper belt related Oort cloud objects
And possibly also in:

the pole of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shape
Water and other volatiles may contain many internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float about freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and the habitability of the planet
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is a little closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow three forms to be present at the same time will be much less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps keep the surface temperature relatively constant when present in regular quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, the water there can be dense even at high temperatures, because of the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has increased over the past few decades in almost every part of the world, but about a billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. The report, issued in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, the demand for water will exceed the supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to safe water sources since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water has increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report stated that it is enough for all the United Nations, but for all nations. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been implemented by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, potentially leaving some donors working on project overlaps with recipient governments without empowerment to implement. Authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as one of the reasons for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply the 'blueprints' used in the developed world to developing locations and world contexts. The Mekong River is one example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that rely on Mekong river water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely done. It also found that Cambodia's draft water law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from a preventable water-related disease, which is often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity is described as endemic, due to excessive consumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water pressure. Yet over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by around 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have quadrupled, while floods in the middle of the northern latitudes have increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries with water insecurity, 4 billion people at least experience water shortages for $ 3 billion per year. It calls for policies that match reality rather than old-fashioned norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered purifying in most religions. Beliefs that incorporate ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central Christian Sacrament (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in many cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been purified by the priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing of people, places, and objects, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is valued as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it as a ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and engineer, theorized that the earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, believed further that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associated with water and phlegm, as cold and moist. The classic element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in making use of all things, and in occupying, without striving (on the contrary), a low place that is disliked by all. Hence (the path) is close to (that is) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, but to attack firm and strong things nothing can prioritized - because there is nothing (very effective) that can be changed". from the people of the Chinese region different from the character of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of the water of life and death. The Fountain of Youth represents the concept of magical water believed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" forms a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, hymns are not just "monotonous strings of facts", but, the phrases, like their subjects, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside to the quiet quiescence of concluding 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the most waning remark of the Moonshymn. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "The improbable feat of raising to poetry all the information clutter footling has been accumulated in schoolbooks". The literary motif of water represents the theme of the novel "eternal, eternal life," and the canopy represents the peak of the motif in the novel. The following is a canopy that is quoted in full. What is in the water that Bloom, waterlover, water drawer, watercarrier returns to the range, admire? Its universality: its democratic equality and constancy to its nature in seeking its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumbed profundity in the Sundam trench in the Pacific exceeds 8,000 fathoms its surface is not calm waves: seaboard: the independence of its units: the variability of the sea state: its hydrostatic calm in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in the neap and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar icecaps, Arctic and Antarctic: climate and its commercial significance: overponderance of dry land: 3. Extending in a square league throughout the area under the subequatorial tropics of Capricorn: multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all dissolved substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of the peninsula and downwardtending volume and its imperability and imperability: all its heavy promontories and its imperability: lagoons and tarns of the highlands: its color gradation in the torrid and temperate zone and frigid: the ramifications of the vehicle in the continental lake contains the stream and the connfluent river flowing ocean with their tributaries and their transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south course of the equator: its violence in outaquakes, waterspouts, waterspouts. freshets, spates, groundswells, DAS, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its circumterrestrial circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secret in the spring, and latent moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic and hyemplmetrical instruments on the walls of Ashtown or exemplified by circumterrestrial horizontal instruments. saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen and one constituent part of oxygen: its healing properties: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its persistent penetration in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, leaks in ships: its properties for cleaning, quenching, its properties do not absorb into vegetation. paradigm and paragon: his metamorphosis into steam, mist, cloud, rain, hail, snow, hail: his power in the rigid hydrant: his various forms in loughs and bays and bays and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and dense mounds, glaciers and tidal seas. icefloes: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and graving docks: its potential derived from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level, flora and submarine: floral favoustic and submarine; literally, the inhabitants of the world: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, fading flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated the Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it features over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the United Nations, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to demonstrate the impact of clean water on people's lives. Parody of dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks that mock scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. Fake stories are made up of safety concerns about substances. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many rappers based in Florida as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go further, some rappers have made entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
Reference
Works cited
further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to The World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archive December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, PBS documentary 2020