Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is a fundamental part of the world's rivers, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living things, in which it acts as a fluid. Water, being a polar molecule, enters into intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major part of physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient. Because of its ubiquity, chemical stability, global abundance, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal radiation". Because the surface temperature and pressure are roughly the same as the triple point of water, water on Earth exists as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made of suspended droplets of water and ice, its solid state. When the ice is well separated, it may fall in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is vapor or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with oceans and seas making up most of the water (about 96.5%). Smaller amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (containing ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most long-distance trade (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat on oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. A lot of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent liquid for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also the basis of many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, yachting, boat racing, surfing, fishing, diving, ice skating, skiing and snowboarding. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod- or suffied water;' It is also associated, with an Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vavj. History
In the world
Goods
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. Room temperature is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless liquid with a hint of blue. Hydrogen chalcogenide is the simplest, is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, despite its poor solubility in non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "liquid of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal conditions on Earth. Countries
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause a phase change: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (steam to ice). Obesity
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and contracts slightly as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so while still wet. In addition, it is unusual because it shrinks significantly when it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum weight of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98°C (39.16°F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (shrinks slightly) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the water level decreases. As it freezes and becomes ice, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressure, burst pipes and cracked rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the normal behavior of holding and thickening as it cools. These unusual temperatures have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms at the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice protects the water below, keeping it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic life in the lakes would die during the winter. Furthermore, this strange behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that transports heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with large energies they can achieve noticeable interaction. Phase changes
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solids) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can evaporate at its surface by evaporation (evaporation through a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold water while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. During freeze-drying, food is frozen and stored at low pressure so that the ice on it cools down. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              Q
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

there 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the latent heat of the melting point. In most substances, volume increases as melting occurs, so melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur beneath the ice sheet, creating subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a hot spring in Yellowstone National Park. In water heaters, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. On the other hand, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three critical points
In the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where three phases can exist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure that liquid water can have. Until 2019, three points were used to describe the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At high temperatures and pressures liquid and vapor form a continuous phase called "supercritical fluid". It can be slowly compressed or expanded between fluids such as gas and water; its properties (very different from those of ambient water) have a sense of density. For example, for appropriate pressures and temperatures can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including many organic compounds. This makes it useful in various applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as a benign environmental scavenger or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a fluid during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The most common form of ice on Earth is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper region. As the pressure increases, the ice forms more crystalline layers. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several others are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, the XVIII ice, the center of the cubic, the highest ice, was found when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, which resulted in the formation of solid oxygen atoms where hydrogen atoms flow freely. When ice is sandwiched between graphene, the ice forms a square hole. The chemical nature of water bodies is not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two levels of water. Taste and smell
Fresh water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from conventional sources (including mineral water) often contains a lot of dissolved substances that can give it a different taste and smell. Humans and other animals have senses that enable them to gauge how much water they can drink to avoid too salty or polluted water. Color and appearance
Fresh water appears blue because of the absorption of light in that area c. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water set against a clean white background, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the overtones of the straight O-H vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, according to Beer's law. This also works, for example, with a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with water solutions since the large water pressure of low means that glass cuvettes with a short path can be used. To measure the absorption of water or aqueous solutions in the vicinity of 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be transparent around 3500 cm−1 and not dissolved in water; calcium fluoride is one substance commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. The fundamental Raman vibrations can be observed for example, with a sample of 1 cm. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common forms of glass 16. The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron facing the oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5 °, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Some elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electrically conductive than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are positively charged. Together with the bent shape, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, it dissolves many salts and hydrophilic molecules like sugar and soft drinks like ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - which give flavor to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many organic substances, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. Interactions between water and the particles of these biomacromolecules lead to protein, DNA base pairing, and other important events in life (hydrophobic effect). Many natural substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen fusion
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules in most liquids. That is why the melting and boiling point of water is much higher than that of other compounds like hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its high specific heat (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These elements make water more powerful in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to covalent O-H bonds at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is the covalent component. These bonds are the cause of high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary Action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is relied upon by all vascular plants, such as trees. Artificial ionization
Water is a dilute solution of hydronium hydroxide -there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, as well as a solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small ionic substances such as common salt. Water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy than the heat released by the opposite process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical equipment
Water can be considered unstable for many purposes: its pressure ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa−1 in normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 kilometers deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water has only a 1.8% reduction in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental detection (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, which is a form of carbon, combines with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the world. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of ice is glaciology, of inland water is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Environmental systems and hydrology focuses on ecohydrology. The combined mass of water found underground, and above the earth's surface is called the hydrosphere. The world's water volume (total world water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Water is found in water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond or pond. Most of the water on earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in an aquifer. Water is important to many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fault patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces lava in weak areas. On Earth's surface, water is essential to both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, ice, are also responsible for the bulk of sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. The deposition of sediment creates many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and vegetation. Water moves endlessly through each part of the water cycle with the following transfer methods:

transpiration from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and translocation into the air from plants and animals. rain, water vapor that evaporates from the air and falls to the ground or the sea. a stream from land that usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the sea returns to it,​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​​ but the winds transport water vapor over the land at the same rate as the flow in the sea, about 47 Tt per year while the evaporation and respiration that occurs in many areas of the country also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over the land, takes several forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with help from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew usually appears in the morning when the temperature is the lowest, before the sun rises and when the surface temperature of the earth starts to increase. Water gradients in the atmosphere can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often collects on catchment areas. Through erosion, the flowing water creates an environment that creates valleys and river slopes that provide fertile soil and enough space for the establishment of settlements. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when an area experiences a shortage of its water supply. This occurs when an area receives below average rainfall because of its location or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water sources
Water resources are natural sources of water that can be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water appears as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world's total fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in permafrost; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and plants. The length of time the water is stored is very different: some water sources have water stored for thousands of years, but the size of the lakes may change according to the season, decreasing during the dry season and increasing during the wet season. A large part of the water supply in some areas is from aquifers that are stored in reservoirs, and when the excess is withdrawn, the stock decreases. According to some estimates, about 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, which causes groundwater depletion. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, along with other minor elements. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature towards the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the great oceans varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are large ups and downs in local sea levels caused by the strong currents of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the water depth of oceans and rivers and produce moving waves known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced in a certain area are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth as well as the effects of the Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. A beach that is submerged and exposed to low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important tidal ecosystem product. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many unique properties that are essential for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to function in ways that allow reproduction. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important as a solvent in which many of the body's compounds dissolve and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (with energy that requires enzymatic chemicals) to grow larger molecules (for example, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fat and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce small molecules (for example, sugar, fatty acids, and amino acids that should be used for fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes would not exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form sugar and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and change water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutralization and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H +, that is, a proton) donor, can be reduced by a base, which accepts a proton such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 at the ideal level. Acids have a pH value below 7 while bases have a pH value above 7. Types of aquatic life
The water on the surface of the earth is full of life. The first forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of other underwater organisms. Plankton is generally the base of the marine food chain. Animals that live in water must get oxygen to live, and they do so in different ways. Fish have gills rather than lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to stay on the surface of the water from time to time to breathe. Some aquatic animals are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show many adaptations to live in low-oxygen waters including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrates evolved in an aquatic environment, many have little or no special ability to breathe in water. Effects on human development
Development flourished around rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called areas of civilization, was between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile River. The first civilization of the Indus Valley (ca. 3300 BCE - ca. 1300 BCE) began along the Indus River and its tributaries flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong prospered due to their easy access to water and increased trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was what contributed to human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable or potable water. Non-potable water can be consumed by filtration or filtration, or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to people when swimming or bathing is called by different names other than potable or drinking water, and sometimes it is called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is an irritant to the skin and mucous membranes used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1-2 ppm of unreacted chlorine in bathing water waste). Bath water can be kept at a satisfactory level of germs by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by the use of ultraviolet light. Water treatment is the process of converting wastewater (mainly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce communities, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which is also driven by the natural hydrologic cycle, but the pressures on access to it are caused by the uneven distribution of nature in space and time, the growing economic needs of agriculture and industry, and the increase in population. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress on those goals has been slow, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation kill; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of municipal wastewater remains untreated in local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also have medium or high water scarcity and 17 of them release more water per year than is washed through their natural water cycle. This product not only affects fresh water bodies on the surface like rivers and lakes, but also destroys underground water resources. Human consumption
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of human water use. In the United States, 42% of fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, treat, and deliver water, and to remove waste water. But increasing economic, demographic, and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for sustainable water resources, which is giving rise to the concept of high water. As the population and economy grow, the consumption of water-thirsty meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new problems are likely to arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Association in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture around the world and mapped water-scarce areas. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-stressed areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically water-scarce areas, where a lack of water investment or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but that the continuation of today's food production and environmental practices could cause problems in many parts of the world. In order to avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase production to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities are finding ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - equivalent to a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4 percent of the world's water use, the water is used in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. It has caused great environmental damage: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the total weight of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters, and the temperature of melting ice". However, in order to work, a reference scale of iron was needed, which is a thousand times heavier than a kilogram. So the task was assigned to find exactly the weight of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the gram's prescribed definition mentioned water at 0 °C (32 °F) - a very reproducible temperature - the scientists chose to redefine the situation and make their measurements at the highest water temperature, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water contains isotopes of hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes of oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. River and lake water tend to have heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, average water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The right amount depends on the job situation, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is absorbed through food or other beverages other than drinking straight water. The medical literature favors low consumption, usually 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional needs due to water loss due to exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary while exercising, which can put them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular saying that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking more water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Drinking enough water helps prevent constipation. The first water intake recommendation was issued in 1945 by the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board. The National Research Council reads: "The recommended amount for most people is one milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in processed foods." The U.S. National Research Council's latest dietary reference report. generally recommended, based on total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water intake in the survey. In particular, pregnant women and those who are breastfeeding need more fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and those who are breastfeeding should get 3 liters (12 cups), as more fluid is lost during nursing. It has also been noted that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and alcoholic beverages (including caffeine). Water is removed from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through perspiration, and through inhalation of water vapor in the air. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with less impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Other solutes are acceptable and desirable to improve taste and provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest source (in size) of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a reactant and often as a solute or catalyst. In unusual reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a compound, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these things are sometimes desirable. Also, it has been shown to accelerate the Diels-Alder reaction with water. Supercritical fluid has recently been the subject of research. Water with excess oxygen burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are the common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water may be found naturally in a lake or ocean. It is very efficient at conducting heat through steam and sealing water due to the large latent heat of steam. The problem is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all power stations, water is used as a working fluid (used in the closed space between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and as a coolant (used to exchange waste heat with water or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest users of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron detector. In most nuclear facilities, water is the coolant and coolant. This provides something of an ineffective safety measure, since removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are preferred for stopping the reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Memories of fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is non-condensable, making it an excellent liquid for extinguishing fires. Water vapor removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic compounds because many organic substances float on the surface of the water and water tends to spread the flammable liquid. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which may occur when water is used in very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or coke graphite, destroy water, producing water gases. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case was not from extinguishing the fire but from the reactor's water heating system. Evaporation occurred when the extreme heat of the core caused the water to vaporize. A hydrogen explosion may occur due to the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when they come into contact with water that a fire hazard can occur. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If these are wet, they may catch fire when their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, sailing, swimming and diving. In addition, other sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and have fun. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water to be calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, fun and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or as snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply networks, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old sewers. Atmospheric water generators continue. Drinking water is usually collected from wells, drawn from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Therefore, building more wells in sufficient areas is a possible way to produce more water, assuming that the water resources can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need treatment for human consumption. This can include the removal of insoluble matter, dissolved matter and harmful organisms. Popular methods are sand filtration which removes insoluble matter, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful organisms. Distillation does all three jobs. There are more advanced methods, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of seawater is a very expensive solution used in dry coastal areas. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tank supply or bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy free of charge. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluting water may be the single worst use of water; to the extent that pollution limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. As with other forms of pollution, this is not included in the standard accounting of market costs, it is considered an externality for which the market cannot be held accountable. So some people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local residents, the victims of this pollution. Medicines used by humans often end up in water and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they do not decompose. Municipal and industrial wastewater is often treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reducing surface water pollution is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial equipment
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in aqueous slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, which require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used for power generation. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydroelectricity. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. A dam is usually built over a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for fine cutting. It is very efficient, relatively safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used in the cooling of machines to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial and mechanical processes, such as steam turbines and boilers, in addition to its use as a chemical agent. The discharge of untreated water used in industry is pollution. Pollution includes volatile compounds (chemical pollution) and cooling water discharges (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many processes and uses different treatment methods for water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food preparation
Boiling, steaming and immersing are common cooking methods that often require immersion in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Compounds such as salts and sugars found in water affect the quality of water. Boiling and freezing water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. The solutes in the water also affect the process of the water which affects many chemical changes and the growth of microorganisms in the food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce the activity of water - this is important to know because most bacterial growth ceases to be active at low water levels. The growth of microorganisms not only affects food safety, but also the storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange process. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, as well as play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the amount of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and the surrounding conditions for the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution by nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a product of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this material production finally touches the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. Visible water is produced quickly by this warm, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "more than 140 billion times more water than Earth's oceans combined" orbiting a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been found in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. It is possible that water is abundant in some galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems may have similar compositions. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: in observable quantities
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and more water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of total atmosphere, usually 1–4% above
Atmosphere of the Moon: in retrospect
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only ice; and of its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - according to the number below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in the deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar weather: it is not limited to cool stars and is also seen in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water is water
Water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that water exists on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the southern pole of Enceladus, and on Titan, as an underground region, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between the ice and the high pressure. Water ice
Water exists as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and in the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reports the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper inside the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's Moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other objects related to the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it may be in:

Numbers of Mercury
Tethys

Unusual types
Water and other volatiles are probably present in most of the inner parts of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deep parts may be in the form of ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and they are deep like water in which the oxygen is sparkling, but the hydrogen ions are floating freely in the oxygen. Water life and planets
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is the most habitable part of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or farther away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow all three species to exist at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air moisture. Small planets like Mars have little or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a greenhouse effect that helps keep the surface temperature relatively constant when present in normal amounts. The amount of water on a planet depends on the atmospheric pressure, which is controlled by the planet's gravity. If the planet is large enough, its water may be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and problems
Water politics is politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and a key factor in many political conflicts. It causes adverse health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but nearly a billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be facing water stress. The report, issued in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, demand for water will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water since 1990. The number of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. due to poor governance and corruption. In addition, global efforts to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, which leaves many donors working on projects that overlap with recipient governments without the power to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cite poor governance as another reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is about knowing which processes work best under certain physical and economic conditions. Mistakes have sometimes been made by trying to use 'plans' that work in developed countries to develop regions and global standards. The Mekong River is another example; a review by the International Water Management Center of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong river for water found that thorough and clear cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's water use laws are more complicated than they should be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to poor sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been described as widespread, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or severe water stress. However, in the last 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water security include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Management carries out projects with the aim of using a more efficient water system to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations announced that people have entered a period of "water depletion" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without water, 4 billion people have a shortage of water in one month. year. It wanted policies that conformed to reality rather than the practices of the past. By culture
Religion
Water is considered cleansing in many religions. Beliefs that include ritual washing (purity) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism and Wicca. The immersion (or immersion or immersion) of a person in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, bathing in clean water is practiced for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can often be performed after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four primitive elements (along with fire, earth and air), and he considered it to be a pillar, or the basic element of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle describes as an astronomer and engineer, proposed that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, who was a demon, also believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body associates water with phlegm, as cold and moist. The ancient element of water was also one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest virtue is like (the) water. The virtue of water is seen in its beneficence to all things, and its taking, without striving (on the contrary), a low place which all men dislike. So (its path) is nearer (to the) Tao" and "There is nothing in the world simpler and weaker than water, yet for attack solid and strong things nothing can take before it - because nothing (so effective) can be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 explains more about the "water characteristics" that describe the "natural characteristics" of people and the "natural water" of different Chinese regions to the structure of local water resources.
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm's tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian language of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept associated with magical water that is said to prevent aging. Art and skill
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just "each series of notes", rather, its phrases, like their title, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, collect and break, until they calm down in the silence of the plague epidemic, the flower water that disappears, the flower water that disappears, the many pools of the moon" are considered as many pools of the moon. Ithaca's remarkable verses, and according to book critic Hugh Kenner, he achieves "the impossible feat of elevating the mass of information collected in textbooks into poetry." The meaning of the water texts represents the theme of the novel of "eternal, eternal life," and the hymn represents the climax of the novel. The following is a complete quote from the hymn. Bloom, daughter of water, water void, water driver back in space, what is she interested in? Its universality: its democratic balance and the solidity of its nature to find its position: its size in the sea of ​​the Mercator projection: its depth without water in the Sundam tunnel of the Pacific is higher than 8,00 millimeters. to visit successively all the details of the coast: the independence of its parts: the diversity of the sea states: its hydrostatic calm in the calm: its hydrokinetic stability in the near and spring tides: its calmness after the destruction: its purity in the surrounding ice, arctic and arctic and antarctic: the arid part of the world: its irresistible position expands in squares leagues in all the area below the low tropic of Capricorn: the stability of its first multisecular basin: its bright bed: its ability to melt and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals to the bottom. alluvial deposits: its weight and its height and abundance: its stability in lakes and mountain ranges: its composition of colors in very cold and cold and cold regions: its car columns in the lake of the continent with streams and rivers that flow from the seas and their northern streams and seas: Earthquakes, water earthquakes, springs, fountains, eruptions, floods, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, inundations, cloudbursts: its great circumterrestrial circumterrestrial space, atmosphere and calm mud: rhabdomantic or hygrometric devices and is shown by the fountain in the hole in the wall of the gate of Ashtown, the flow of air, the pouring of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its healing qualities: its flow in the waters of the Dead Sea: pools, leaks on ships: its properties of cleansing, quenching thirst and fire, strengthening plants: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, snow, snow, hail: its force in hard hydrants: its various forms of falls and drops. and islands and sounds and fjords and minches and seas and arms of the sea: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, icebergs: its working in hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, river scutches, water vessels Graving docks: its ability to be obtained from the seas closed or waterways that descend from level to level: its underwater animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) in number, if not in fact, the population of the world: its ubiquity as part of 90% of the human body: the cruelty of its flowers, flowers of flowers, pollen water, pollen water. standing pools in the full moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster realized The Value of Water, St. John the Divine in New York City, which confirmed the Cathedral's year-long project on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, a group of environmental artists who use water as their subject. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation declared by the UN as a human right, the charity WaterAid has commissioned ten artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of pranks and jokes mocking the illiteracy of science. This began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story had security concerns about the item. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida musicians as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Artists who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Further, some musicians have created entire songs dedicated to the waters of Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See again
Details
References
Duties specified
Read more
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Timeline of Water Conflicts: The Water Conflict Archive Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine. School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to The World Bank's strategy, work and publications related to water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most mysterious things in the universe", thoughts, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association of Water and Steam Equipment Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine. H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary