Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. A clear, tasteless, odorless and colorless chemical. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, acting as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, experiences strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding that greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. Regardless of whether food provides energy or organic micronutrients, it is essential for all known forms of life. Water is often called the "universal solvent" because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size. Water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas because the surface temperature and pressure of Earth are somewhat close to the triple point of water. Rain forms precipitation in the form of aerosols in the form of mist. Clouds are made up of very solid water and ice droplets. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for most of the water (about 96.5%). Minor fractions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), glaciers and ice sheets of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), vapor in the air, clouds (consisting of suspended ice and liquid water), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle through evaporation, transpiration (bugapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in both saltwater and freshwater bodies has been and continues to be a major food source in most parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's food supply. Most long-distance trade of goods (oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for various mineral and organic substances; as it is widely used in manufacturing processes and in cooking and washing. It is a center for many sports and recreation including water, ice and snowshoeing, kayaking, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snow skiing and skiing. Etymology
The word water is from Old English væter, Proto-Germanic *watar (source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian vetiri, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, watn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or root *wet ('water'); Also, through the Indo-European root, Greek υδωρ (ιδορ; from Ancient Greek χδωρ (χυδόρ), English "hydro"), Russian вода́ (вода), Irish uisce, and Albanian water. History
On Earth
Adjectives
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. A tasteless, odorless, almost colorless liquid at room temperature. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is the most studied chemical compound to date and is described as a "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is poor at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solution of life": indeed, water found in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are necessary to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only substance that exists as a solid, liquid, or gas under normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two formal names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. Two other common states of matter for water are ice and the solid phase, the gas phase, water vapor, or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water vapor), condensation (water vapor), sublimation (water vapor), and precipitation (ice to ice). Density
Water expands and becomes less dense as it cools within a certain temperature range; it is the only natural substance that does so when liquid. It is also unusual in that it is considerably less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it has a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 f/cubic ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes denser) until its density in the liquid phase reaches its freezing point of 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 fb/cubic ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes into ice, water expands by about 9% and has a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 f/cubic ft). The tremendous pressure from this expansion can burst pipes and crack rocks. The solid exhibits a normal tendency to contract and becomes denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, 4 °C (39 °F) water sinks to the bottom and floats on top of the liquid water, forming ice. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the lake's aquatic life would die out during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous movement is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat across the planet's oceans. Magnetic
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, it can interact appreciably with superconducting magnets. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam condensates at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at the surface by evaporation (evaporation is boiling everywhere in a liquid). Sublimation and precipitation also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces, and snow flakes settle into aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In freeze drying, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure, so the ice on the surface is reduced. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. The rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T. d
              Q. =
        
          
            
              T. (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L. -
                  
                    v
                    
                      Q.)
              
            
            
              L. f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    display \displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}} = {\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}} - v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L. display \displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S. display \displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 is the molar amount of liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L. f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the latent heat of fusion. In many substances, the volume increases during melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is denser than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficient amounts of ice, resulting in underground lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can exist as a liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or in groundwater. For example, temperatures at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park, exceed 205 °C (401 °F). Temperatures in hydrothermal vents can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, 1,524 meters (5,000 feet) of cooking time must be quadrupled to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. Water in a vacuum boils at room temperature. Three important points
A pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) contains curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point where three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611,657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure that liquid water can have. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as an important point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the superfluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (quite different from surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at suitable pressures and temperatures, it is freely miscible with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, such as high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or as a catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. It acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution, and precipitation in the Earth's mantle. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth is ice Ih, which forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Ice Ic with cubic crystal symmetry may exist in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, ice forms other crystalline structures. By 2024, twenty trials have been conducted and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, a face-centered cube, the superionic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and the temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of solid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square panel. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Fresh water is usually said to be tasteless and odorless, although frogs are known to have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths. However, waters from conventional sources (including mineral water) usually have many dissolved substances that can impart different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge whether water is too salty or too salty to avoid. Color and appearance
Pure water is blue because of the absorption of light in the region. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be observed in a glass of water placed against a pure white background in broad daylight. The main absorption bands for the color are the resonances of the O - H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column according to Beer's law. This is also used with the swimming pool, for example, when the light source is the sunlight from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions, as the higher intensity of the lower water layer means that short-path glass cubes can be used. A path length of 25 μm is required to observe the absorption spectrum extending to about 3500 cm - 1 (2.85 μm) in water or in a region. Also, the solvent should be transparent at about 3500 cm - 1 and insoluble in water; calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for power windows with aqueous solutions. For example, Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) deep in the oceans. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.03), as are alkane and ethane, but glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass species (1.4–1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are close to two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The other two corners have lone pairs of valence electrons that are not involved in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge while oxygen atoms have a partial negative charge. Along with the bent structure, this molecule imparts an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, including oxygen and carbon dioxide—the latter of which produces carbonated beverages, sparkling wines, and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other events important to life (hydrophobic interactions). Many organic substances (fats, oils, and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are approximately ten times stronger than the van der Waals forces that hold molecules together in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than other similar compounds, such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its remarkably high heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (0.561 to 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at controlling Earth's climate by trapping heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to 492 kJ/mol for a covalent O–H bond). It is estimated that 90% of this is electrostatic and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are responsible for the surface tension and capillary forces of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is shared by all vascular plants, including trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide − with an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O + + OH− , along with solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic material, such as common salt. Electrolysis is the process by which liquid water is split into its elements, hydrogen and oxygen, by passing an electric current. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat output in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: under normal conditions, its compressibility is between 4.4 and 5.1 × 10-10 Pa-1. Even in oceans 4 km deep with a pressure of 400 atm, the amount of water decreases by 1.8%. The viscosity of water at 20 °C (68 °F) is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 psi, and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water at very low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km to 1 kHz), which is used by people on the seashore and humans to communicate and sense their environment (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and small amounts of the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon dioxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water on the surface of the water. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers are glaciology, inland waters are limnology, and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Hydrology and ecological processes are the focus of ecohydrology. The mass of water found below, below, and above the planet is called the hydrosphere. The approximate amount of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water occurs in bodies of water such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water exists in the atmosphere as solid, liquid, and vapor. It also exists in water bodies such as groundwater. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater occurs in most rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects faults. Water in the mantle is responsible for volcanic eruptions at subduction zones. On Earth, water is important in chemical and physical climate. Water, and to a lesser extent, ice, is also responsible for much of the sediment transport that occurs on Earth's surface. The sedimentation of sediments forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically known as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange between the hydrosphere, the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water constantly moves through each of these regions in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water and transpiration from land plants and animals. rain is water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. Land runoff usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean is returned to it, but winds carry water vapor about as much as the ocean currents, 47 Tt per year, and mass evaporation and transpiration over land also contribute 72 Tt per year. At 119 Tt per year, Lander has several types of precipitation: mostly rain, snow and frost, with contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets that condense when high-density water vapor hits a cool surface. Dew usually forms when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunset and when the surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often accumulates on watercourses that flow into rivers. Through erosion, streams shape the environment creating river valleys and deltas, which provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. Flooding usually occurs when a low-lying area overtops the banks of a river or when a storm surge occurs. Drought, on the other hand, is characterized by months or years of water scarcity in the region. This occurs when a region receives consistently above average rainfall in terms of topography or space. Water resources
Water resources are natural resources that can be of use to humans, such as drinking water or irrigation water. Water appears as "stock" and "flow". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. About 69 percent of the total global freshwater is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent in groundwater; the remaining 1 percent is in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. The duration of the stored water is highly variable: some bodies of water have been stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lake can vary seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. For some regions, a significant portion of the water supply is drawn from water stored in stocks, and stocks are reduced when costs exceed charges. According to some estimates, 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea currents and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride and smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from those of fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (−1.9 °C (28.6 °F)), and instead of reaching its maximum density at temperatures above freezing, its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point. The salinity of water in the main seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity of 30-40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the strong forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in depth in marine and estuarine water bodies and create oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a given location is the result of the influence of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth and the rotation of the Earth, and the result of local bathymetry. A littoral strip that submerges at high tide and emerges in a low-tide, intertidal strip is an important ecological product of ocean currents. Implications for life
From a biological point of view, water is essential for the reproduction of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to interact in a way that ultimately allows reproduction. Certain forms of life depend on water. Water is important as a solvent for many of the body's solutes and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy-requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starch, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to create smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that can be used for energy or other purposes). Without water, these particular metabolic processes could not occur. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from the air or water) to form glucose and oxygen is released. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture energy from the sun and convert water and CO2 (cellular respiration). Water is central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid can be neutralized by a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) with a hydrogen ion (H+, ie proton) donor to form water. Water is considered neutral, with pH (the negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) at an ideal level. Acids have pH values ​​below 7 and bases have pH values ​​greater than 7. Aquatic species
Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is the base of the ocean food chain as a whole. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have lungs instead of lungs, and some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, whales, and seals must swim occasionally to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a variety of adaptations for living in oxygenated waters, including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and feeding (Carsinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved in aquatic habitats, most lack the specialization to breathe in water. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, known as the Five Points of Civilization, was located between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers; Ancient Egyptian society was entirely dependent on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (3300 BC - 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and the rivers flowing from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Large cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong thrive on easy access and expansion of trade by water. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, also prospered for that reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water is and has been an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have clean drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or diving is known by various names other than drinking or drinking water and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for diving". Chlorine is a skin and irritant irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (1 parts per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm chlorine is still unreacted with pollutants for drinking water). Water for irrigation can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by the use of chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (often known as sewage, municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic meters) of water per year. About 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cubic feet) are produced annually globally. Freshwater is a resource that is renewable through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures to access it arise from natural uneven distribution in space and time, increasing economic demands from agriculture and industry, and population growth. Today, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe, accessible water. In 2000, the United Nations set the Millennium Development Goals to halve the number of people worldwide with access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Achieving this goal has been unprecedented, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to ensure universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Water quality is poor and sanitation is unsafe; About five million people a year die from water-related illnesses. The World Health Organization estimates that 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea could be prevented each year. In developing countries, 90% of municipal wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. Nearly 50 countries, representing about one-third of the world's population, suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity, and 17 of these countries withdraw more water than is replenished by natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also depletes groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawals are for irrigation, but most of the water that is "wasted" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is neglected, especially in developed countries that have built complex water systems for water collection, treatment and delivery, and wastewater disposal. But growing economic, demographic, and climate pressures are increasing water concerns, leading to increased competition for key water resources and the concept of peak water. As populations and economies grow, consumption of dehydrated meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges arise. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka in 2007 to determine whether there is enough water to feed the world's growing population. It assessed current global availability of water for agriculture and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion people, live in physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. In addition, 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity cannot meet the water demand of the authorities. The report found that the food we need in the future can be produced, but that current food production and environmental trends will continue to lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avert a global water crisis, farmers will need to increase productivity to meet food demand, while industries and cities will need to find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic meters) of water are needed to produce 1 kg of cotton - the equivalent of one pair of jeans. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is already consumed in areas at risk of water scarcity. The environment has suffered significant damage: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production has led to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the volume of pure water per cubic meter and the absolute weight at the melting temperature of ice." For practical purposes, a metal reference standard of one thousand times the mass, one kilogram, was required. Therefore, the work was assigned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Although the standard definition of the gram is set at 0°C (32°F)—the highest performance temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest water density measured at the time, 4°C (39°F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water defined at approximately 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant. This scale is an absolute temperature scale that scales the same way as the Celsius temperature scale, which is set to the boiling point (100 °C (212 °F)) and the melting point of water (0 °C (32 °F)). Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) are also present. The percentage of the heaviest isotopes is very small, but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes contains less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, normal water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mediterranean Water Specification. To drink
The average human body is 50–60% water, depending on age, gender, and body size, but people can be between 45% and 75% water. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends drinking 3.7 L (0.98 US gal) per day for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) per day for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of these are ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking water directly. The medical literature supports a minimum water intake of 1 liter for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink more water than they need while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The idea that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking more than 500 milliliters (18 imp oz; 17 US fl oz) of water during a meal is associated with dehydration. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing bowel obstruction. The original 1945 recommendation on water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "A common standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." The latest nutrition report by the US National Research Council is based on average intakes from US research data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) for men, noting that water provides about 19% of the available water. Pregnant and breastfeeding women in particular need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends an average of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; pregnant women should aim for 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should aim for 3 liters (12 cups), as nursing women lose large amounts of fluid in particular. Generally, it is estimated that about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the rest from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is removed from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, perspiration, and inhalation of water vapor. With physical exertion and heat exposure, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may increase. Humans demand less polluted water. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemicals such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutions are acceptable and even desirable to enhance taste and provide essential electrolytes. The largest freshwater source (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Swallow
Vehicle
Chemical use
Water is widely used as a solvent or reactant in chemical reactions and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder water reactions was also observed. Recently, excess water has been the subject of research. Super-oxygenated water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat transfer
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat transfer due to their availability and high heat capacity for cooling and heating. Cool water may even be available from a lake or sea. Heat transfer through evaporation and condensation of water is more efficient, mainly because of the large latent heat of vaporization. The downside is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly with untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and as a coolant (used either by exchanging waste heat to a reservoir or evaporating the coolant). Cooling power plants are the largest use of water in the United States. Water can also be used as a neutron moderator in the nuclear power industry. In most nuclear reactors, water is both the coolant and the moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction, and it is preferable to cover the reactor core with water to ensure adequate cooling. It's a matter of fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. Evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on grasses containing oils and organic solvents, as many organic materials float on the surface of the water and tend to disperse the flammable liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the dangers of steam explosions, when water is used in confined spaces on very hot fires, and in hydrogen explosions, certain metals or hot carbon materials such as coal, charcoal or coke graphite can disperse the water and produce water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, where the water involved came not from extinguishing the fire, but from the reactor's water cooling system. A steam explosion occurred when coredros' overheating caused water to form steam. A hydrogen explosion can result from a reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Fast alcohol oxide, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If these are ingested, the contents may react with water. Vacation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, snorkeling, boating, surfing, and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played on the ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and unwind. Many people find the sound and appearance of running water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowshoeing, or snowboarding that require the water to crystallize as ice or snow. Water industry
The water sector provides drinking water and wastewater (including sewage treatment) services to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection wells, water supply systems and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, and water pipes such as old water pipes. Atmospheric water generators are developing. Drinking water is often collected from springs, taken from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in Ecuador is a possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require treatment for human consumption. This can include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include sand filtration, which removes only undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation serves three functions. There are more advanced methods such as reverse osmosis. Bulk seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water is distributed through municipal water systems, delivery tankers or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need. Another option is to reduce the use of potable (potable) water for human consumption only. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for flushing toilets across the city to conserve fresh water resources. Polluted water may be the most common use of water; the pollutant becomes a waste of the resource to the extent that it limits other uses of the water, regardless of the pollutant's utility. Like other forms of pollution, it is considered an externality that cannot be accounted for by the market and is not included in the standard accounting of market costs. Thus, other people pay the cost of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not distributed to the local population who are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they do not bioaccumulate and biodegrade. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reducing contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of preventive and remedial measures. Industrial applications
Many manufacturing processes rely on reactions to use water-soluble chemicals, to retain solids in water bodies, or to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash or process products. Processes such as mining, chemical digestion, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use large amounts of water, require special water sources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity - electricity generated from hydroelectricity. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built across the river and an artificial lake is created behind it. Water from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and environmentally friendly. It is also used in cooling equipment to prevent overheating or to prevent blades from overheating. In addition to being used as a chemical solvent, water is used in many industries and machines, including steam turbines and heat exchangers. Industrial use of untreated water is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solvents (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for a wide range of applications and uses a variety of treatment methods in water supply and drainage. Digital industries, especially artificial intelligence, use large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI "threats global and national water security." Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or a gaseous state, such as steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays an important role in the field of food science. Dissolves such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water affect the melt, as well as atmospheric pressure, which affects altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures due to the lower air pressure that occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), while one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); likewise, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolves in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water to the vapor pressure of pure water. Low Water Activity Solutions - This is important to know because most bacteria are inhibited at low water activity levels. Microbial growth not only affects food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Water hardness is an important factor in food production and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. By playing a role in cleanliness, it can significantly affect the quality of a product. The hardness of water is based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in it. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or 60 mg/L (US). According to a 2010 report by Water Footprint, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3 × 10^3 imp gal; 4.0 × 10^3 US gal) of water; However, the authors make it clear that these are global averages and factors that determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outflow of gas and dust. When an outflow of material impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. Observed water is produced rapidly in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans" around Quartz, located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has dominated the universe for almost its entire existence." Water has been found in the clouds in the stars on the path of the river. Water may also be abundant in other galaxies because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that many other planetary systems contain similar substances. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor:

The Sun's Atmosphere: A Detectable Trace Amount
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and most of Mercury's exosphere is water
Vienna atmosphere: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% in full atmosphere, typically 1-2% at surface
Moon's atmosphere: trace amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and Europe month
Saturn's atmosphere is ice-only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Uranus has an atmosphere of less than 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: Not limited to cold stars, it has even been detected in hot giants such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: Contains more than half of the T Tauri stars, including AA Tauri, as well as stars such as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279 + 5255, VY Canis Majoris, and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water is occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, about 30-40 km below Enceladus' south polar region, a 10-km-thick ocean exists, and that Titan exists as a subsurface layer mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water can be sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock on Jupiter's moon Ganymede. Water ice
Water is like ice:

 Mars: beneath the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mostly in Earth's ice sheets and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules in September 2009 by NASA's Lunar Mineralogy Map. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa, plus Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and above and in the mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto - Charon system
Comets and other Kuiper Belt and Oort Cloud objects
Also available here:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic species
Water and other volatiles probably comprise much of the interior of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in deeper layers may exist as ionic water, where the molecules split into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superwater, where the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Water and the habitability of the planet
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, is essential for life as we know it on Earth. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were a little closer or farther away from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), it is very likely that conditions would exist that would allow all three species to exist simultaneously. The size of the Earth also plays an important role: gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a constant amount of surface temperature. The state of water on a planet depends on the external pressure determined by the planet's gravity. If the planet is large enough, the water on its surface can be solid at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water Policy, Water and Water Resources Impact. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and damages biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved almost everywhere in the world in recent decades, but approximately one billion people lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion people lack access to sanitation. However, some observers predict that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will experience water-based vulnerability. A report published in November 2009 predicted that water demand in some developing regions of the world would exceed 50% by 2030. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have had access to safe water. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. Furthermore, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as in education and health, leaving many donor-led projects and recipient governments unable to take action. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture identified poor management as one of the causes of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best under which physical and socio-economic conditions. Mistakes are sometimes made in trying to apply "plans" that work in developed countries to the developing world. An example is the Mekong River; A study by the International Water Management Policy Institute of six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that cost-benefit analysis and thorough environmental impact assessments are rarely conducted. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from water-related illnesses linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. According to the 2023 report, two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. People living in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in water or critically stressed countries. However, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern midlands has increased by a factor of 2.5. Between 2000 and 2019, these floods caused 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute implements projects to use effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships), the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on March 22 and June 8 is World Oceans Day. The United Nations has declared that in 2026, humanity will enter the "Waterfall" era, as more than 50% of the Great Lakes have receded since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have been lost since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water-stressed countries, 4 billion people experience water shortages for at least one month a year, and droughts cost $307 billion a year. He called for policies that corresponded to reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in many religions. Beliefs that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or baptism) of a person in water is the central sacrifice of Christianity (here called baptism); it is part of the practices of other religions such as Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (Mikwa) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, in many religions, including Islam and Judaism, the dead are bathed in pure water. In Islam, the five daily prayers are performed after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (ablution) if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water that is consecrated by a priest to bless people, places and things or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (अब) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and considered it to be the basic or fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, who Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, argued that the denser than water emerged from the water. The monist Thales believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron, which flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The four body humors theory associates water with phlegm as cold and wet. The classical element of water was one of the five elements (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal) in traditional Chinese philosophy. Some traditional and popular Asian philosophies use water as an example. In James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing: "The highest skill is like that of water. The superiority of water is beneficial to everything, and appears (inversely) without trying the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its path) is close to the way of Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, but nothing can surpass it in attacking hard and strong things, because there is nothing that can be changed." The Chinese describe the symbolism of water as the nature of local water sources
"Living Water" features in German and Slavic folk tales as a means of raising the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth refers to the concept of magical waters that prevent aging. Art and activism
The "Ithaca" section of Ulysses (1922), a seminal modernist novel by Irish writer James Joyce, takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just "monotonous facts" but phrases that "ebb and flow, ache and swell, gather and break" in what are called "pestilence spikes, fading flower waters, stagnant pools in their finest season." critic Hugh Kenner has "a wonderful opportunity to develop poetry by adding all the information collected in textbooks to the confusion." The literary tone of the water reflects the novel's theme of "eternal, unchanging life," the climax of the theme of the hymn in the novel. Below is the complete hymn. What impressed him in the water, the aqueduct, the water hauler, the water carrier returning to the range? Universality: its democratic equality and consistency in nature in search of its own level: Mercator's breadth in the projection ocean: the seas above 8000 meters in the Sundam Trough of the Pacific: the points of independence and the seas. Sea condition: calm Hydrostatic stability: hydrokinetic turgidity in clear and spring currents: survival after destruction: in circumpolar ice, arctic and antarctic Vulnerability: climatic and commercial importance: 3 to 1 preponderance over terrestrial land of the globe Primary basin: luteofulvus bed: ability to dissolve and store all soluble matter, containing millions of tons of precious metals: slow erosions and subsidence of the peninsula: alluvial deposits: weight and volume and density: variability in lagoons and mountain ranges continental lake currents and interfluve ocean currents rivers, tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf current, north and south equatorial courses: in sea tremors, aquifers, artesian wells, eruptions, streams, rivers, freshets, water tables, aqueducts, geysers floods, cloudbursts: huge peripheral horizontal curve: in springs its secret and hidden moisture, example of a well with a hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate, detected by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments, saturation of air, composition of moisture: simplicity of composition, part of oxygen: part of hydrogen Dead Sea: seepage in docks, ditches, adequate dams, seepage in shipwrecks: purifying plants, thirst and feeding grass, properties to feed plants: paradigm and paragon-like error: steam, fog, cloud, strong metamorphoses such as rain, rain, snow, frost: strong waters and strong waters. lagoons and atolls and archipelagos, sounds and fjords, bays and seashores and estuaries: in glaciers, icebergs, ice sheets strength: in water mills, turbines, dynamics, power stations, flow plants, rivers, docks tidal waves or currents that may appear: underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) in number, in the atmosphere Inhabitants: make up 90% of the human body: in lacustrine swamps, pestilential fens, stagnant rivers, floods. Artist and activist Frederica Foster wrote The Value of Water at St. John's Cathedral in New York City, supporting the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever held at the cathedral featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornick, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think Water, an ecological group of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Cote, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna McLeod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the United Nations declaring water and sanitation a human right, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to showcase the impact clean water can have on people's lives. A carbon monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name was used in both hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983 when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story was based on safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used as a catchphrase or adlib by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done it include BLP Kosher and Skia Mask of Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have performed entire songs, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water," dedicated to water in Florida. See also
Notes
References
Artifacts have been delivered
Read more
External links

World water information page
FAO Integrated Aquatic Database, AQUASTAT
Timeline of the Water Conflict: The Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
World Bank Strategy, Work, and Water Resources Publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Internet
Hydrology and Science Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Opinion, BBC, Video, 3:16 min, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived September 27, 2022, at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS Documentary