Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main constituent of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms, where it acts as a solvent. Water, as a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a major contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known life forms, despite not providing dietary energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its abundance throughout the world, and the strong polarity associated with its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the temperature and pressure on Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, a liquid, and a gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are made up of suspended water droplets and ice, its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can freeze in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as water in the ground (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, often reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boats across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, sailing, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-wet-o' (water root). Also related, via an Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), of which English is 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wāj. History
On Earth
Characteristics
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it has difficulty dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": in fact, water found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special measures are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal terrestrial conditions. State
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid part of H2O. The other two common states of matter of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vapor (water to steam), condensation (water vapor), sublimation (ice to steam) and deposition (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance that does so while liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that regard. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and turns into ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can produce tremendous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits typical contracting behavior and becomes denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, which floats on liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms living in lakes would die during the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat around the planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, in superconducting magnets it can achieve a remarkable interaction. Stages of transition
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), water melts or freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or steam boils at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation of the entire liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L__{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, the volume increases when melting, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting pressure can occur under a sufficiently thick volume of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceeded 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); this is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can gradually compress or expand between gaseous and liquid densities; its properties (which are quite different from the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, for suitable pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, may occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty had been confirmed experimentally and many more had been predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centred-cubic, superionic phase of ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that increased the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms through which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not fully understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the potability of water to prevent water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water appears blue because of the absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color is easily observed in a glass of tap-water placed against a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent color intensity increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight reflected from the white pool tiles. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used in aqueous solutions because the higher intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with short path-lengths can be used. To observe the main stretching absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental vibrations can be observed in, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form a 104.5° angle with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of a tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form a 109.5° angle, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are higher than other analogous compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its very high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bond of water is at 23 kJ/mol (compared to a covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of these, it is estimated that 90% is attributable to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property relies on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –with equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, with solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under ordinary conditions. Even in oceans with a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers only a 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water around the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of water on land is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and on the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The estimated volume of the world's water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or puddles. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is essential to many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and this groundwater pressure affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is essential to both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the land surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, groundwater, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water continuously moves through each of these regions in the water cycle which consists of the following migration processes:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from plants and animals on land into the air. precipitation, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to the ground or ocean. runoff from land that normally reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over the land at the same rate as runoff to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration that occurs on land masses also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, takes several forms: most commonly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and mist. Fog is small water droplets that condense when high density water vapor meets a cold surface. Fog usually forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to produce rainbows. Water flows often collect in watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered by water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. On the other hand, a drought is an extended period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall due to its topography or due to its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful for humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of global freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, atmosphere, and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can vary seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large part of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in stocks, and when withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks decrease. By some estimates, as much as 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, along with smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature drops to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the main seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Rising tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillating currents known as tidal streams. The change in water produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of the Earth's rotation and the local bathymetry. The strip of beach submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological product of the ocean. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many unique properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storing fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (eg, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is essential to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (the negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal state. Acids have pH values less than 7 while bases have values greater than 7. Aquatic forms
The waters on the earth's surface are teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is basically the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of modifications to survive in oxygen-poor waters including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, while invertebrate life has evolved in an aquatic habitat, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, is located between the main rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient society of the Egyptians was highly dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flow out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber river. Large metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, thrive for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarcer, access to clean drinking water was and is a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by various other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrologic cycle, but pressures to access it result from its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing agricultural and industrial economic needs, and population growth. Currently, nearly one billion people worldwide do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide who do not have access to safe water and sanitation. Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is still untreated in local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity and 17 of them withdraw more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but it also depletes groundwater resources. Human things
Agriculture
The most important human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for up to 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "wasted" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, purifying, and delivering water, and removing wastewater. But growing economic, demographic, and climatic pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries rise, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of agricultural water management was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It analyzed the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and mapped locations suffering from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas with physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. An additional 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet demand for water. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must strive to increase productivity to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities look for ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, the water is consumed in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. Great environmental damage was caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was largely responsible for the loss of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes though, a metallic reference standard is required, a thousand times larger, the kilogram. Therefore, the work was assigned to determine the specific mass of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the assigned definition of the gram defined water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a very high reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the maximum density of water, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is mainly composed of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain fewer isotopes than seawater. Therefore, mean water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals may have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. recommends National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallon) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of these are absorbed through foods or drinks other than drinking straight water. Medical literature favors lower consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular statement that "a person should drink eight glasses of water per day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking too much water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtimes, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. An original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board. The National Research Council reads: "An ordinary standard for diverse people is 1 milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is in prepared foods." The most recent U.S. dietary reference intake report. National Research Council generally recommends, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) contains water that is approximately 1% of food in women, not the total water provided in food total water use in the survey. In particular, the pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal). take 3 liters (12 cups), as a particular amount of fluid is lost during nursing. About 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, and through exhalation of water vapor during physical exertion. water loss and daily fluid requirements may also increase. Common impurities such as copper and lead; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, and Vibrio, are acceptable and even desirable necessary electrolytes. The single largest source of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia
Transportation
Chemical products
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, sometimes these characteristics are desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water was observed. Supercritical water has been the subject of research recently. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are a common fluid used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cold water can be obtained naturally from a lake or sea. It is especially effective at transferring heat through steam and condensing water because of its large latent heat of steam. One drawback is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are more quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed-loop between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat in a water body or transport it by evaporation to a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both coolant and moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction down. However other methods are favored for stopping a reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it an excellent liquid fire extinguisher. Evaporation of water carries heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oils and organic solvents because many organic materials float in water and water tends to spread flammable liquids. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the risks of steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose the water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from fire fighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. A steam explosion occurs when overheating of the core causes water to flash into the steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of a reaction between the steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in reaction with water that they can pose a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often transported in paper bags. If they get soaked, they can ignite as their contents react with water. entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and for sports. Some of these include swimming, waterskiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Beaches, beaches, and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of running water to be calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, enjoyment, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require water at low temperatures either as ice or crystallized in snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply networks, and water purification facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are in development. Drinking water is often collected in springs, drawn from artificial borings (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate areas is one possible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide enough flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may require purification for human consumption. This may include the removal of indigestible substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in dry coastal climates. The distribution of drinking water is done through the municipal water system, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to those in need free of charge. Reducing use by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Dirty water may be the biggest single misuse of water; to the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits of the pollution. Like other types of pollution, it does not enter into the standard accounting of market costs, being considered as externalities that cannot be addressed by the market. That is why other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population, who are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they do not decompose. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of polluted surface runoff is addressed through various prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use a lot of water, requiring dedicated water resources, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric power comes from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built across a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used to cool machinery to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification methods in both supply water and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles within the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure that occurs at higher elevations. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); also, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water decrease water activity—this is important to know because most bacteria stop growing at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be modified or treated by using a chemical ion exchange system. It greatly affects the quality of a product, as well as playing a role in cleanliness. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate contained in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the organization Water Footprint in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and that these factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In space
Most of the universe's water is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The water observed is rapidly produced in this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a massive cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, the "discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for most of its existence". Water has been detected in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies, as its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar components. water vapor
Water is present as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in visible trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and there is a lot of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the entire atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ices; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ices; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: not limited to cooler stars and have even been seen in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is occasionally present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface liquid water ocean. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water is present as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: primarily as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa and also Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system of the planet and in the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And probably also present in:

Poles of Mercury
Tethys

Strange forms
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the inner structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers can be in the form of ionic water where the molecules are broken into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water where the oxygen is crystallized, but the hydrogen ions are free floating within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is slightly closer to or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow the three forms to be present at the same time are more likely not to exist. The size of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold an atmosphere, including air moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is massive enough, its water can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics affected by water and water resources. Water, particularly fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important element in many political conflicts. This causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in recent decades in most parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still lack access to safe water and over 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. A report, released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 report stated that it is sufficient for all people, but the United Nations has enough water. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the empowerment to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cite poor management as a reason for some types of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is fundamentally about knowing what processes work best in a given physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in the built world to building world locations and contexts. The Mekong river is an example; an International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries that rely on the Mekong river for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's draft water law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic, due to overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. But in the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to increase at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute conducts projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and Ramsar Convention. World Day for Water is held on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations has declared that humanity will enter an era of "Water bankruptcy" as more than 50% of large lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in water insecure countries, 4 billion people experience water scarcity per year, $3 billion per year. It calls for policies that match reality rather than previous standards. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleanser in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual washing (washing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or aspersion or affusion) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, a ritual bath in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless there is no water (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or a place (eg, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, blessing people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as an ylem, or basic substance of the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and an engineer, theorized that earth, which is denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron - easy to flow compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors in the body relates to water in the phlegm, as cold and wet. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The highest excellence is like (that of) water. The excellence of water appears in its usefulness to all things, and in its conquering, without striving (on the contrary), the low place that all men dislike. Therefore (its way) is close to (the) Man" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, yet for attacking solid things and strong nothing can precede it—for there is nothing (so effective) that it can be changed." Guanzi in the "Shui di" 水地 chapter expressing "natural properties" expresses the nature of water. of people in different Chinese regions on the characteristics of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic folktales as a means of bringing back the dead. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("The Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical water that is said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the significant modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not just a "monotonous string of facts", rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside into the calm quiescence of the concluding 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon is considered most of the waning moon. Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieved the "impossible act of raising in the poem all the clutter of information accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, eternal life." The following is the hymn quoted in full. its equanimity and the stability of its nature in finding its own level: its vastness in the ocean of Mercator's projection: its unplumed profundity in the Sundam trench of the Pacific beyond 8,000 points visiting the surface of all its restless waves: seaboard: the independence of its units: the diversity of sea states: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: its preponderance in dry land: the preponderance of the land extends to square leagues in all regions below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and its downward weight loss and impermeability: lagoon and highland tarns: its gradation of colors in hot and temperate and very cold zones: its effects on the transport of continental lakes containing streams and interconnected oceans flowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence in earthquakes, wells of water, wells of water. freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its wide circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secret in springs, and latent humidity, revealed by rhabdomantic and hyemplmetric instruments on the wall. saturation of air, distillation of fog: the simplicity of its composition, two parts of hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing virtues: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead Sea: its tenacious penetration of runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, ship leaks: its properties for cleansing and igniting plants paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its strength in strong hydrants: its various forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and its tidal estuaries: icefloes: its obedience to the working of hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its use in canals, rivers, if free, floating and graving docks: its potential can be obtained from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to water level, where florals fall from level to water level, where under water (photos) literally, the inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity as constituting 90% of the human body: the venom of its effluvia in lacustrine marshes, pestilential fens, faded flower water, stagnant pool in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, anchoring the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition to appear at the Cathedral, it features more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared by the UN as a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name was used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific ignorance. It began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consists of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a sort of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done so include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to Florida water, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Works cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
The Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Water science school (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Structure and science of water Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The chemistry of water Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
The International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary