Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical substance. It is the main component of the world's streams, lakes and oceans. Water is also the fluid of all known living organisms and acts as a solvent in them. Water, a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. Although it does not provide food energy or is an organic micronutrient, it is vital to all known life forms. Water is often referred to as the "universal solvent" because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size. Water exists on Earth in solid, liquid, and gaseous forms, as the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water. It creates precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of solid water and ice. Crystalline ice can precipitate as snow when finely divided. The gaseous form of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers approximately 71% of the Earth's surface; Seas and oceans make up most of the water volume (about 96.5%). A small fraction of water is found in groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air in the form of vapor, clouds (consisting of airborne ice and liquid water), and precipitation (0.001%). Water constantly moves through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and runoff, often reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. Approximately 70% of the freshwater used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater resources has been and continues to be an important food source for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance commodity trade (such as oil, natural gas, and processed products) is transported by boats via seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a wide variety of substances, both mineral and organic; Therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes, cooking and washing. Water, ice and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, including swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding and skiing. etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (from also Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, from the root *wed- It comes from the suffix form ("water"; "wet"). It is also cognate, via the Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian ujë. date
on earth
Features
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. It is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless and slightly blue liquid at room temperature. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide is the most studied chemical compound to date, and although it is poor at dissolving nonpolar substances, it is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids. This makes it the "solvent of life": in fact, water found in nature almost always contains a variety of dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, and gas under normal land conditions. states
Water, along with oxidant, is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. Two other common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or vapor. Addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). density
Water is one of the few substances that expands and decreases in density as it cools within certain temperature ranges; It is the only known naturally occurring substance that does this when liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that its density decreases significantly as it freezes, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As water freezes and turns into ice, it expands by approximately 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create tremendous pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and condensing as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4°C (39°F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing solid. Without this protection, most aquatic creatures living in lakes would disappear during the winter months. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat across the planet's oceans. magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, a remarkable interaction can be achieved with superconducting magnets. phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) of pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), and water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below its boiling point, water can turn to vapor at its surface through evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition on surfaces also occur. For example, while frost accumulates on cold surfaces, snowflakes form by accumulating on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, a food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice on its surface sublimates. Melting and boiling points depend on pressure. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d.
              T
            
            
              d.
              P.
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L.
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S.
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L.
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L.
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S.
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L.
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. When melting occurs in most substances, the volume increases, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, since the density of ice is less than water, its melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, melting by pressure can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship is also valid for the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the density of the vapor phase becomes much lower than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in deep oceans or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. Temperatures at hydrothermal vents can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C for every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In vacuum, water boils at room temperature. Triple and critical points
In a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point, called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611,657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647,096 K (373,946 °C; 705,103 °F) and 22,064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are quite different from those of ambient water) are density sensitive. For example, it is freely miscible with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds, at appropriate pressures and temperatures. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry, and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. It acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition in the Earth's mantle. Phases of ice and water
The normal form of ice on the Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another ice, Ic, with cubic crystal symmetry may occur in the upper atmosphere. As pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty of these have been experimentally confirmed and several more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic phase of ice, was discovered when a water droplet was subjected to a shock wave that raised the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees; This resulted in a structure consisting of solid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When ice is sandwiched between layers of graphene, it forms a square lattice. Details of the chemical structure of liquid water are not well understood; Some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, but humans have special sensors that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are also known to be able to smell water. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to evaluate the drinkability of water to avoid water that is too salty or stinky. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly blue due to the absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a pure white background in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for color are the overtones of O-H stretching vibrations. According to Beer's law, the apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool where the light source is sunlight reflected off the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color may also vary from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy with aqueous solutions is used because the intensity of the subtones of water means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the fundamental stretch absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path length of approximately 25 μm is needed. In addition, the cuvette is both transparent at around 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a material commonly used for bathtub windows in aqueous solutions. Raman active fundamental vibrations can be observed, for example, with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water to depths of hundreds of meters because sunlight can reach them. Almost no sunlight reaches the depths of the oceans below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft). The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0); It is similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but is lower than the refractive index of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. molecular polarity
In a water molecule, hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of an oxygen-centered tetrahedron. In the other two corners, there are lone valence electron pairs that do not participate in the bond. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms will form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is approximately 0.096 nm. Other substances, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S), have a tetrahedral molecular structure. However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atoms have a partially positive charge. This, along with the bent structure, gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases such as oxygen and carbon dioxide; Carbon dioxide gives fizz to sodas, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides found in living organisms are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other events important for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances, including most metal oxides, sulfides and silicates, are also insoluble. hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force, which pulls molecules together in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. These also explain its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating the Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. Water's hydrogen bonds are about It is 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). It is estimated that 90% of this is due to electrostatics, with the remaining 10% being partially covalent. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move upward in a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on it.
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide; With the dissolution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions, there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, and this increases with the dissolution of small amounts of ionic material, such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it, a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility varies between 4.4 and 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s, or 0.01 equilibrium, at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 to 5,100 ft/s), depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property used by marine mammals and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and liberating the hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. on earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water on Earth. The branch of science that studies the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciology of glaciers, limnology of inland waters, and oceanography of distribution of oceans. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The total mass of water above, below, and above the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate volume of water (the world's total water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or ponds. The majority of water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere as solid, liquid and vapor. It is also found as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Most rocks contain groundwater, and the pressure of this groundwater affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On the Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for large amounts of sediment transport across the earth's surface. The accumulation of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geological record of Earth's history. water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water constantly moves through each of these zones in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation into the air from oceans and other bodies of water, and transpiration into the air from land plants and animals. Precipitation occurs when water vapor condenses from the air and falls to the ground or the ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean returns to the ocean, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as sea flow; approximately 47 Tt per year, and evaporation and transpiration from land masses contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation on land, at a rate of 119 Tt per year, comes in various forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, with some contribution of fog and dew. Dew is tiny drops of water that condense when high-density water vapor encounters a cold surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning hours when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise, and when the temperature of the earth's surface begins to increase. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight and create rainbows. Water runoff is usually collected in basins that flow into rivers. Runoff through erosion shapes the environment by creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat ground for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. Drought, on the other hand, is a long period of months or years during which a region notices a deficiency in its water resources. This occurs when an area consistently receives below-average rainfall due to its topography or location in terms of latitude. water resources
Water bodies are natural sources of water that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a drinking water supply or as a source of irrigation water. Water occurs in both "stock" and "flow" states. Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater, or groundwater, ice, and snow. An estimated 69 percent of the total volume of global freshwater is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; The remaining 1 percent is in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: Some aquifers consist of water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. For some regions, a significant portion of the water supply consists of water obtained from water stored in stocks, and stocks decrease when withdrawals exceed replenishment. By some estimates, 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation is unsustainably extracted from groundwater, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from freshwater in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and, instead of reaching maximum density at a temperature above freezing, its density increases as the temperature drops to freezing. The salinity of water in large seas varies from approximately 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its ultra-high salinity of 30 to 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and produce oscillatory currents known as tidal currents. The changing tide produced at a particular location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth and the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The tidal zone, a strip of seashore that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, is an important ecological product of ocean tides. Effects on life
From a biological perspective, water has many different properties that are critical for the proliferation of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows proliferation. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is vital both as a solvent in which most substances dissolve in the body and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins for storage of fuels and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these specific metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and regenerate water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid can be neutralized by a donor of hydrogen ion (H+, i.e. a proton), while a base can be neutralized by a proton acceptor, such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), to form water. Ideally, water is considered neutral with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7. The pH value of acids is less than 7, and the pH value of bases is greater than 7. aquatic life forms
The Earth's surface waters are teeming with life. The first life forms appeared in water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some animal species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of their lives on land. Plants such as moss and algae grow in water and form the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is generally the basis of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need to take in oxygen to survive, and they do this in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to surface periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide variety of modifications to survive in poorly oxygenated waters, including respiratory tubes (see insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrates evolve in aquatic habitats, most have little or no expertise in aquatic respiration. Impacts on human civilization
Civilization has historically developed around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, called the cradle of civilization, was located between major rivers such as the Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient society of the Egyptians was entirely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley civilization (3300 BC – 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries originating from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian River Tiber. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy accessibility by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe water ports, such as Singapore, also developed for the same reason. In places where water is more scarce, such as North Africa and the Middle East, access to clean drinking water was and continues to be an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtering, distilling or a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but does not harm humans when used for swimming or bathing purposes is referred to by various names other than drinking or potable water and is sometimes referred to as safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is often monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) of chlorine for drinking water and 1-2 ppm of chlorine that has not yet reacted with impurities for swimming water). Bath water can be maintained in satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (mostly sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries; This means that each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource that is recirculated by the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on access to it arise from inherently unequal distribution in space and time, increasing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and growing population. Approximately one billion people worldwide currently lack access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals, which call for universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; Approximately five million deaths each year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million children from dying from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated into local rivers and streams. Nearly 50 countries, home to roughly one-third of the world's population, also experience moderate or high levels of water scarcity, and 17 of them extract more water annually than is replenished through natural water cycles. This strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater supplies. human uses
agriculture
Humanity's most significant use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use in the United States is for irrigation, but the vast majority of “consumed” water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built advanced water systems to collect, purify, distribute water, and remove wastewater. However, increasing economic, demographic and climatic pressures increase concerns about water problems, lead to increased competition for fixed water resources and lead to the emergence of the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat expands, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries grow, new water challenges are likely to emerge. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see whether the world had enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed current water availability for agriculture on a global scale and mapped places experiencing water scarcity. It turns out that one-fifth of the world's people, or more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. A further 1.6 billion people live in regions experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water demand. The report stated that it may be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will need to seek to increase productivity to meet growing food demand; Industries and cities will find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: The production of 1 kg of cotton (equivalent to one pair of jeans) requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of world water use, water is consumed in regions already at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one cubic hundredth of a meter at the melting temperature of ice." But for practical purposes a metallic reference standard a thousand times heavier than the kilogram was required. Therefore, a study was initiated to precisely determine the mass of one liter of water. Although the established definition of the gram had water at 0 °C (32 °F) (a highly repeatable temperature), scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI system's Kelvin temperature scale was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined in terms of the boiling point of water (set at 100°C (212°F)) and the melting point (set at 0°C (32°F)). Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavier isotopes is very small but still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. to drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size; However, in individuals this rate can be between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily water intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gal) for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this is taken in through food or drinks other than drinking plain water. Medical literature typically supports a lower consumption of 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding extra requirements due to fluid loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink too much water while exercising, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" appears to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at mealtime, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is beneficial in preventing constipation. The original recommendation for water consumption from the US National Research Council Food and Nutrition Board in 1945 stated: "The usual standard for different individuals is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." The latest dietary reference intake report by the US National Research Council generally recommends based on average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) of total water for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women; notes that water contained in food provided approximately 19% of the total water intake in the survey. Especially pregnant and breastfeeding women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. On average, the US Institute of Medicine recommends that men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women consume 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their fluid intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal), and breastfeeding women should increase their fluid intake to 3 liters (12 cups), as a particularly large amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It should also be noted that normally about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the remainder coming from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in various ways; through urine and feces, through perspiration, and through inhalation of water vapor in the breath. Water loss will increase with physical exertion and exposure to heat, and daily fluid needs may also increase. People need water that contains small amounts of impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable to enhance flavor and provide necessary electrolytes. The largest (by volume) source of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. washing
transportation
Chemical uses
Water is commonly used as a solvent or reactant in chemical reactions and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. It is not generally used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these features are sometimes desirable. It has also been observed that Diels-Alder reactions are accelerated by water. Supercritical water has been a topic of research recently. Oxygen-saturated supercritical water efficiently burns organic pollutants. heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to their availability and high heat capacity for both cooling and heating. Cold water can even be obtained naturally from a lake or sea. The transport of heat through the evaporation and condensation of water is particularly effective due to the large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper oxidize more quickly with raw water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as the working fluid (used in the closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and coolant (used to transfer waste heat to a body of water or to remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). The largest use of water in the United States is cooling plants. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both coolant and moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, since removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction, and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire related matters
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. Using water on fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because many organic materials float on water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. When using water in firefighting, the dangers of a steam explosion that may occur when water is used on very hot fires in enclosed spaces and the dangers of a hydrogen explosion that may occur when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coke graphite, decompose water and produce water gas must also be taken into account. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, but in this case the water used came from the reactor's own water cooling system, not from firefighting. A steam explosion occurred when overheating of the core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction of steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat that they can pose a fire hazard when reacted with water. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance usually carried in paper bags. If they get completely wet they may catch fire as their contents react with water. recreation
In addition to using water for many recreational purposes, people also use it for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. Some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are also played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places where people go to relax and have fun. Many find the sound and sight of running water calming, and fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, entertainment and companionship. People also use water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding; In these sports, the water must be at a low temperature, such as ice, or crystallize into snow. water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater collection cisterns, water supply networks and water pipes, including water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is usually collected in springs, extracted from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow, building more wells in sufficient locations is a possible way to produce more water. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This may include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods include filtering with sand, which removes only undissolved substances, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis are available. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. Drinking water is distributed via municipal water systems, tanker delivery, or bottled water. In many countries, governments have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce the use of potable (drinking) water by using it only for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city in an effort to preserve freshwater supplies. Polluting water may be the biggest misuse of water; To the extent that the pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefit to the pollutant. Like other types of pollution, these do not fall under standard market costs accounting because they are considered externalities that the market cannot account for. Thus, others pay the price for water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local population that is the victim of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often enter waterways and can cause harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and fail to biodegrade. Domestic and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reducing polluted runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, the suspension of solids in water slurries, or the use of water to dissolve and remove substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing and cooling of power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in electricity production. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric energy is generated from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically, a dam is built across a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing out of the lake is passed through turbines that drive generators. Pressurized water is used in water jet and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precision cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and not harmful to the environment. It is also used to cool machines to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. In addition to being used as a chemical solvent, water is also used in many industrial processes and machines such as steam turbines and heat exchangers. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires pure water for many applications and uses a variety of purification techniques in both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially AI, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could “threaten global and national water security.” food processing
Boiling, steaming, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or gaseous steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many critical roles in the field of food science. Dissolved substances such as salt and sugar in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures due to lower air pressure at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in foods. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity; This is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity. Microbial growth not only affects the safety of food, but also affects food preservation and shelf life. Water hardness is also a critical factor in food processing and can be changed or processed using a chemical ion exchange system. It can significantly affect the quality of a product and play a role in sanitation. Water hardness is classified according to the calcium carbonate concentration the water contains. Water is classed as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water is required for 1 kilogram of beef; however, the authors also make clear that this is a global average and that circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. medical use
Water for injections is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
in the universe
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this flow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced in this hot, dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report announced that a massive water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" had been discovered around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water is prevalent throughout almost all of existence in the universe." Water has been detected in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, it is likely that most other planetary systems have similar components. water vapor
Water exists as vapor in the following situations:

Atmosphere of the Sun: detectable trace amounts
Mercury's Atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% in the full atmosphere, typically 1-4% at the surface
Moon's Atmosphere: trace amounts
Atmosphere of Mars: 0.03%
Ceres' atmosphere
Jupiter's Atmosphere: 0.0004% - ices only; and that of its moon Europa
Saturn's Atmosphere - ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – below 50 bar with trace amounts
Neptune's Atmosphere – found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, including Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: Not limited to cooler stars and can even be detected in giant hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei, as well as more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri. liquid water
There is liquid water covering 71% of the Earth's surface. Small amounts of liquid water are also occasionally found on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean approximately 30-40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and on Titan as a subsurface layer possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features suggestive of a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist as a layer trapped between high-pressure ice and rock on Jupiter's moon Ganymede. water ice
Water exists in the form of ice:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: primarily as ice sheets on Earth, in lunar craters, and in volcanic rocks NASA reported in September 2009 that water molecules were detected by NASA's Lunar Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Moons of Jupiter: the surface of Europa and also the surface of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: In the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto–Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
Also probably available in:

poles of mercury
Tethys

exotic forms
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and water in deeper layers may be in the form of ionic water, where molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper may be superionic water, in which oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen lattice. Water and planetary habitability
The existence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is vital to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), it would be much less likely that conditions would exist that would allow all three forms to exist simultaneously. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to retain an atmosphere, including air humidity. Smaller planets such as Mars have extremely thin or non-existent atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the ambient pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is large enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It has health effects and harm to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved in nearly every part of the world over the past decade, but nearly a billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. But some observers predict that more than half of the world's population will face water-related vulnerability by 2025. A report published in November 2009 suggests that by 2030, water demand will exceed supply in some developing parts of the world by 50%. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have accessed safe water. It is estimated that the proportion of people in developing countries with access to clean water increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report states that "there is enough water for everyone" but access to it is denied. Mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, are not being addressed as effectively by water sector donors as they are in education and health, potentially leaving multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments lacking the authority to act. Authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as a cause of some types of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes by which decisions about water management are made. Good water governance is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in trying to apply 'plans' that worked in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong river is an example; The International Water Management Institute's review of policies in six countries dependent on the Mekong River for water found that comprehensive and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law was much more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child died every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. The UN World Water Development Report, prepared by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has been providing decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies since 2003. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion people (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is widely identified as a result of overconsumption and pollution. The report states that 10 percent of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water scarcity. However, water consumption has increased by approximately 1% per year over the last 40 years and is expected to increase at the same rate by 2050. Since 2000, floods in the tropics have quadrupled, while floods in the northern mid-latitudes have increased 2.5 times. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects to use effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day is celebrated on 22 March and World Oceans Day is celebrated on 8 June. The United Nations declared that humanity has entered the era of "Water Bankruptcy" in 2026, as more than 50% of large lakes have decreased since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries with water insecurity, 4 billion people experience water scarcity for at least one month a year, and drought costs 307 billion dollars a year. He called for policies that match reality rather than past norms. in culture
religion
Water is considered cleansing in most religions. Religions that include ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or sprinkling, or dissolution) of a person in water is a central Sacrament of Christianity (it is called baptism); it is also part of the practices of other religions, including Islam (Gusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, in many religions, from Islam to Judaism, a ritual of washing the dead with clean water is performed. In Islam, five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (ablution), as long as water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to cleanse a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless persons, places, and objects, or to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is considered the source of life. philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles viewed water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and viewed it as an element, that is, the fundamental substance of the universe. Described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, Thales theorized that the world, which is denser than water, emerged from water. A monist, Thales also believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was the icosahedron, it flowed easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The four body fluid theory associated water as cold and moist with phlegm. The classical water element was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says: "The highest perfection is like water. The perfection of water consists in the fact that it benefits all things, and without effort (on the contrary) occupies the lower place, which all men dislike. Hence (its path) is nearer to the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, and yet there is nothing that can surpass it in attacking solid and strong things - for there is nothing (so effective) by which it can be changed." In the chapter “Shui di” 水地, Guanzi further elaborates on the symbolism of water by declaring that “man is water” and attributing the natural qualities of water. People in different parts of China are learning the character of local water resources. Germanic and Slavic folk tales feature "living water" as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Pay attention to the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a concept related to magical waters that are claimed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish writer James Joyce's major modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the "Ithaca" section takes the form of a catechism consisting of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water hymn." Richard E. For Madtes, the hymn is not merely "a monotonous set of facts" but rather, like its subjects, expressions of "come and flow, swell and swell, gathering and breaking, until at last they dissolve into the tranquil silence of 'harmful swamps, withered flower water, stagnant pools on the waning moon'." The hymn is considered one of the most remarkable passages in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh, Kenner achieved "the incredible feat of translating into poetry the entire mass of elementary knowledge accumulated in school books." The literary water motif represents the novel's "eternal, ever-changing life" theme, and the hymn represents the culmination of the motif in the novel. Below is the hymn quoted in full. What did Bloom, water lover, water bearer, water bearer admire in water? Its universality: its democratic equality and immutability to its own nature in search of its own level: its immensity in the Mercator's projection ocean: its unplumbed depth exceeding 8,000 fathoms in the Sundam trench in the Pacific: the restlessness of its waves and surface particles visiting all points of the seashore in turn: its independence of its units: its variability of sea states: its hydrostatic stillness in calm: its hydrokinetic swelling in sudden and spring tides: its collapse after destruction: circumpolar, polar and its sterility in the Antarctic glaciers: Its climatic and commercial importance: Its 3 to 1 superiority over the dry lands of the earth: Its indisputable hegemony extending far and wide over the entire region below the sub-equatorial tropic Capricorn: The very secular stability of its primitive basin: The luteofulvous deposit: The capacity to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of the most precious metals: Slow erosions on peninsulas and downward headlands: Alluvial deposits: weight, volume and density: stability in lagoons and mountainous lakes: color transitions in arid, temperate and cold regions: its instrumental branches in the continental lake, streams and rivers flowing into the ocean with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf stream, northern and southern equatorial routes: violence in the seas, waterspouts, artesian wells, eruptions, floods, eddies, fresh currents, floods, ground waves, watersheds, water divides, geysers, cataracts, eddies, whirlpools, floods, inundation, torrential rains: broad environmental horizontal horizontal curve: its secrecy and latent moisture in springs, revealed by rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and exemplified by the hole in the wall at the Ashtown gate, saturation of air, distillation of dew: simplicity of composition, two components hydrogen and a component oxygen: healing properties: Buoyancy in the waters of the dead Sea: Persistent penetration in streams, gutters, inadequate dams, leaks on ship decks: Cleansing, thirst and fire-quenching properties, nutritious vegetation: Infallibility as an example and example: Metamorphoses as steam, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: Power in hard taps: In lakes, bays, inlets, inlets, passes and lagoons diversity of forms and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minions and tidal estuaries and tributaries: its solidity in glaciers, icebergs, ice floes: its docility in operation in hydraulic mill wheels, turbines, dynamos, power plants, laundries, tanneries, windmills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, floating and grave docks, if the ship is navigable: its potential from currents or water falling from one level to another can be derived from its ways: submarine fauna and flora (anacustic, photophobic), inhabitants of the earth numerically, if not literally: ubiquitous, as it constitutes 90% of the human body: the noxiousness of its discharge in lake marshes, harmful swamps, withered flower waters, stagnant pools on the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster at St. Paul's in New York City. He curated The Value of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, which formed the basis of the Cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever opened in the cathedral featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name was used in a number of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific ignorance. This began in 1983, when an April Fool's Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. music
The word "water" has been used as a sort of catchphrase or ilanb by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further, some rappers have made songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as the 2023 Danny Towers song "Florida Water." See also
Notes
References
Studies cited
Further reading
External links

World's Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
Aquatic science school (USGS)
Portal providing access to the World Bank's strategy, studies and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine. water on the internet
Water structure and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine. "Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
The chemistry of water Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Society for the Properties of Water and Vapor Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Makes Us, 2020 PBS documentary