Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and nearly colorless chemical compound. It is a major constituent of the Earth’s streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the water of all known living things, where it acts as a lubricant. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which contributes significantly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, although it does not provide nutritional energy or be an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its global abundance, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the surface temperature and pressure of the earth is so close to the triple point water point, water exists in the earth as a solid, liquid and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds are composed of suspended droplets of water and ice, their solid state. If properly divided, crystalline ice may precipitate in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth’s surface, with oceans and seas making up most of the water (about 96.5%). Small amounts of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in the atmosphere), and rain (0.001%). Water is constantly moving through the water cycle of evapotranspiration, runoff, precipitation and runoff, usually reaching the ocean. Water plays a vital role in the global economy. About 70% of the fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater bodies has been, and continues to be, a major source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Most long-distance trade in commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ships on oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice, and steam are used for industrial and domestic heating and cooling. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes as well as cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also important for many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, pleasure boating, canoeing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. The biology of the word
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, a form of root suffix *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). It is also related, by Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English ‘hydro-’), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History
In the world
The characteristics
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, nearly colorless with a blue component. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as a "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is good at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, both liquid and gas in normal earthly conditions. Governments
Along with oxidane, water is one of two formal names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the aqueous phase of H2O. The other two common states of liquid matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or vapor. The addition or removal of heat can result in phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and deposition (vapor to ice). The density of the objects
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools to a certain temperature; it is the only known natural substance to do so if it is water. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes less viscous as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), the water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the water content decreases. When it freezes and turns to ice, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can create extremely high pressures, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits typical compaction behavior and viscosity as it cures. These unusual temperatures have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. The ice traps the water below, preventing solid freezing. Without this protection, many aquatic creatures would die out in the winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important component of the thermohaline circulation that propagates heat around the planet’s oceans. Magnetic architecture
Water is a diamagnetic substance. Although the interaction is weak, with highly conducting magnets it can achieve appreciable interaction. Changes in categories
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts and water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor above it by evaporation (vaporization in all liquids is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur at surfaces. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes are formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, the food is frozen and stored at low pressure so that the ice on the surface sublimates. The melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good estimate of the rate of change of melting temperature and pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P.S
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                ) L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\display style {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

here 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\ text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, volume increases as melting occurs, so melting temperature increases with pressure. But, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick volumes of ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas reaction the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in the liquid state at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with increase, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 metres. Cooking at high altitudes takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a fourth to achieve the desired effect. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three and important points
In the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These come together at a single triple point, where all three dimensions can coexist. The three-phase point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/vapor phase curve terminates at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (quite different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can freely mix with nonpolar compounds, including many organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst for chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth’s mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineralization, precipitation and deposition. Ice and water phases
The usual form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. One with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several more are theoretically predicted. The sixteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-cube-centered, superionic particle of ice, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to shock waves that raised the pressure of water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees hydrogen atoms flow freely. Folded between the graphene layers, the ice forms a square sphere. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are poorly understood; some studies suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the presence of two liquid states. Taste and aroma
Fresh water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific senses that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and birds are known to be able to smell. However, water from conventional springs (including mineral water) usually contains many dissolved substances which can impart different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed sensors that enable them to evaluate drinking water to avoid water that is too salty or corrosive. Color and texture
Fresh water appears blue due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily seen in a glass of tap water set on a clean white surface, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, to a swimming pool if the light source is sunlight reflected off the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the very strong low overtones of water mean that glass cuvettes with a short path-length can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or of an aqueous solution in the vicinity of 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette should be clear at least 3500 cm−1 and waterproof; calcium fluoride is the single most commonly used material in cuvette windows containing aqueous solutions. Raman active fundamental vibration can be detected with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the oceans less than 1,000 meters (3,300 meters) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.4 to 1.6). Refraction index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with an oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are near the two corners of the oxygen-centered tetrahedron. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in the bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is larger than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Some substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge and the hydrogen atoms have a positive charge. Together with the curved shape, this gives the molecule an electrical dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and light alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are water soluble. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules constitute protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they are insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including many metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in the liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are 10 times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in bulk water. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also account for its exceptionally high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water very efficient in balancing the earth’s climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is due to electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is the covalent component. These compounds are responsible for the major water resistance and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is trusted by all vascular plants, such as trees. Individual self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide –there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, by combination and solvation of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical potential, which increases with the evaporation of small amounts of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen elements by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only 1.8% volume decrease. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (roughly 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a range used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). The reaction of things
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At higher temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution and quality of water around the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecological and hydrological processes are in the focus of ecohydrology. The collected water found on the surface, ground, and surface of the planet is called the hydrosphere. The earth’s estimated water volume (total water supply on earth) is 1.386 trillion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in water sources, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or pond. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water also exists in the atmosphere in the solid, liquid, and vapor forms. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is essential for many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects faulting patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melt that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. At the surface, water is important for both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport occurring at the surface. Deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth’s history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and vegetation. Water moves constantly through each of these regions in the water cycle consisting of the following transmission processes:

evaporation from the oceans and other water bodies into the atmosphere and evaporation from land plants and animals into the atmosphere. rain, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling on land or sea. runoff from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water most available in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as ocean flow, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring at high altitudes also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, consists of many forms: mainly rain, snow, and hail, with small contributions from fog and dew. Dyela are small droplets of water that condense when a high amount of water vapor comes into contact with a moist surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are at their lowest, just before sunrise and when surface temperatures begin to rise. Water condensed in the air can also reflect sunlight to produce rainbows. Runoff often accumulates on the surface of river floodplains. Through evaporation, the runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas providing rich soil and level ground for the establishment of population centers. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, which is usually low, is covered with water which occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. A drought, on the other hand, is an extended period of months or years in which a region realizes a shortfall in its water supply. This occurs when an area receives rainfall that remains below average either because of its topography or because of its location relative to latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or water for irrigation. Water occurs as "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world’s total freshwater, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permafrost; 30 percent are in groundwater; and the remaining one percent to lakes, rivers, atmosphere, and ecosystems. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers have water stored for thousands of years, but lake volumes can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large part of the water supply in some regions consists of water withdrawn from water stored in stocks, and when water withdrawals exceed recharge, stocks deplete. According to some estimates, as much as 30 percent of all water used for irrigation comes from sustainable groundwater extraction, causing groundwater depletion. Seawater and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, as well as smaller amounts. The properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the great oceans varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is indeed a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea level caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in sea and estuarine water depths and produce oscillating currents known as tidal streams. The tide changes produced at a given location are the result of changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth’s rotation and local bathymetry. The submerged ocean floor at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important ecological resource of ocean waves. The effects on life
From a biological point of view, water contains many different properties that are crucial for the proliferation of life. It does this job by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow for expansion. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is extremely important as a solvent in which many of the body’s solutes dissolve and as an essential component of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy-requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starches, triglycerides, and proteins to store fuel and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to yield small molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids used in fuel for energy utilization or other purposes). Without water, these unique metabolic processes would not exist. Water is essential for photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to split liquid hydrogen into oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and regenerate water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also important for acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is assumed to be neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal case. Acids have pH values less than 7 and bases have values higher than 7. Forms of aquatic life
Surface water is teeming with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish are exclusively aquatic, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the starting point for marine food. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals must surface regularly to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show extensive adaptations to live in poorly oxygenated water including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since invertebrate life evolved in an aquatic environment, most have little or no specialized aquatic breathing skills. Effects on human civilization
Historically development occurred around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called crads of civilization, lay between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; the ancient Egyptians were entirely dependent on the Nile. The first Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Major cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their prosperity in part to their easy access by water and the resulting commercial expansion. Islands with safe waterways, like Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is extremely scarce, access to clean drinking water was and is a major factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Nonpotable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation, or by various other processes. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is unfit for drinking but not harmful to humans when used for bathing or swimming is called by various names other than drinking or drinking water, and is sometimes referred to as safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) in drinking water, and 1–2 ppm chlorine that has not yet reacted with wastewater bath). Swimming water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological state by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Recycling is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in countries experiencing water scarcity, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water each year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource, recycled by the natural hydrologic cycle, but pressures on access to it are due to naturally uneven distribution in space and time, growing economic demands by agriculture and industry, and rising populations. Currently, nearly a billion people worldwide lack access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide who do not have access to safe water and sanitation. Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals for achieving universal access to safe and adequate water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still goes untreated in local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, accounting for about a third of the world’s population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of them extract more water each year than they recharge through their natural water cycles. This list not only affects fresh surface water bodies like rivers and lakes, but also damages groundwater resources. The use of human beings
Agriculture
The major human water use is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for about 80 to 90 percent of all human water. In the United States, 42% of freshwater extracted for use is for irrigation, but the vast majority of water that is "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems for collecting, treating, and delivering water and removing wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climatic pressures are increasingly worrying about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the notion of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty meat consumption increases, and new demands rise for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges may arise. A study of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the land has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It assessed the current availability of agricultural water on a global scale and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world’s population, more than 1.2 billion, lives in geographically deprived areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically deprived areas, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to satisfy water demand. The report found that it will be possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of today’s food production and environmental trends will create problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to scramble to increase production to meet growing demands for food, while industry and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. Cotton, for example: 1 kg of cotton—the size of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, this water is consumed in areas already at risk of water scarcity. Severe environmental damage has been done: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton led to the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equivalent to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundred meters, and at the temperature of melting ice". But for practical purposes, a reference standard for metal, a thousand times, the kilogram, was needed. A task was therefore commissioned to determine accurately the weight of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the gram’s mandated definition specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at a much higher water temperature, then measured as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. This scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increment as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water is composed mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentages of heavier isotopes are much smaller, but they still affect water properties. Water from rivers and lakes tends to contain lighter isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. Because of drinking
The human body is, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although humans can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends daily fluid intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 U.S. gallons) for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on workload, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is consumed through food or other beverages without drinking straight water. The medical literature favors a minimum consumption, typically 1 liter of fluid for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. A healthy kidney can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of fluid per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink far more water than necessary while exercising, putting them at risk for water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink six glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that high fluid intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp ﬂ oz; 17 US ﬂ oz) during meals, was not associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps in preventing constipation. The first recommendation to drink water in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Council of the U.S. National Research Council was issued. it read: "The standard standard for a wide range of people is one milliliter for every calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in prepared foods." A recent report on the consumption of food references by the U.S. National Research Council. generally recommended, based on mean total water intakes from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) for women, noting that the water content of a given diet approx 19% of total water consumption in the study. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need extra water to stay hydrated. The US Medical Association recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase drinking to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as an even greater amount of fluid is lost during lactation. Also noted is that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (caffeinated included). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through perspiration, and through the exhalation of water vapor. With physical exertion and heat, fluid loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may increase as well. People want water with less pollution. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Other solutes are acceptable and even necessary to improve flavor and provide necessary electrolytes. The single largest (by volume) source of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Bathing
Transportation
Uses of chemicals
Water is mostly used in chemistry as a solvent or reactant and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as some polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is rarely used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. Still, sometimes these features are desirable. Also, faster Diels-Alder reactions with water were observed. Supercritical water has recently been the subject of research. Oxygen-rich supercritical water burns organic pollutants efficiently. Exchange of heat
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, for heating and cooling. Warm water may even be obtained naturally from a lake or sea. It is particularly effective at conducting heat through the vaporization and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industry such as iron and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as both working fluid (used in a closed-loop between boiler, steam turbine and condenser), and coolant (used to exchange waste heat to the water body and then carry it by flow to the cooling tower). In the United States, electric heating plants are the largest users of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a nuclear reagent. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a lubricant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as dewatering the reactor also slows the nuclear reaction. However some methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is desirable to keep the nuclear core covered with water in order to ensure adequate cooling. Consideration of fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inactive, making it an ideal firefighting liquid. The flow of water carries the heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving fuels and organic solvents because most organic materials float on the surface of the water and the water tends to spread the flammable liquid. The use of water in firefighting must also consider the risks of vapor explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosion, when solvents, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose water, releasing water gas. The force of that explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case came not from firefighting but from the reactor's own water cooling system. The vapor blast occurred when the overheating of the core caused the water to flash into steam. The hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction between the vapor and the hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat in reaction with water that a fire hazard may exist. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced material often transported in paper bags. When these get wet, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sport. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, canoeing, surfing and diving. In addition, other sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on the ice. Lakes, lakes and water parks are popular places for people to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and look of running water soothing, and fountains and other cascading water features are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals inside aquariums or ponds for display, pleasure, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at low temperatures either as ice or crystallized into snow. The water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to households and industry. Water supply infrastructure includes reservoirs, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply networks, and water treatment plants, water tanks, water towers, water pipelines including old water canals. Space water generators are in the works. Drinking water is usually collected in wells, extracted from artificial borings (springs) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more reservoirs in suitable locations is thus a feasible way to extract more water, assuming the aquifers can supply enough flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. The water may need to be treated for human consumption. This can include the removal of insoluble matter, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration which removes only loose material, while chlorination and fermentation kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of most seawater is the most expensive solution implemented in dry coastal climates. Distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tank delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have free water distribution programs. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve freshwater resources. Water pollution may be the single greatest misuse of water; to the extent that the pollutant suggests other uses for the water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, these do not enter into the standard calculation of market costs, which are thought of as externalities that the market cannot account for. Thus some individuals pay the cost of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have negative effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewaters are generally treated in wastewater treatment plants. Surface contaminated water reduction is addressed through various prevention and treatment strategies. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspension of solids in aqueous slurries or using water to dissolve and extract material, or washing equipment or processing equipment. Processes such as mining, pulp chemical manufacturing, pulp refining, papermaking, textile production, dyeing, printing, and heating power plants use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used for power generation. Hydroelectric power is electricity obtained from hydroelectric power. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a hydro turbine connected to a generator. Hydropower is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is supplied by water movement. A dam is usually built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing from the lake is forced by turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precision cutting. It is very efficient, very safe and environmentally friendly. It is also used in mechanical cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial and mechanical processes, such as steam turbine and heat exchanger, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is waste. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses various treatment methods for water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Preparation of food
Boiling, steaming, and roasting are popular cooking methods that often require foods to be submerged in water or in their gaseous state, namely vapour. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles within the field of food science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as atmospheric pressure, which in turn is affected by size. Water boils at the low temperature and low atmospheric pressure that occurs at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles decreases the evaporation rate. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemicals and microbial growth in food. The work of water can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Water solutes reduce water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also a very important factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using ion exchange system chemicals. It can significantly affect product quality, as well as contribute to sanitation. Water hardness is calculated based on the amount of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it is less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global average and that situational factors control the amount of water used in beef production. Medical applications
Drinking water is on the World Health Organization’s list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Much of the cosmic water is produced as a result of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outward wind of gas and dust. When this discharge eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the generated shock waves compress and heat the gas. The observed water is immediately formed in this warm viscous gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a massive water vapor cloud containing "140 billion times more water than all Earth's oceans" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "this discovery shows that water has been pervasive throughout the universe for almost its entire existence". Water has been found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably present in abundance in other galaxies, too, because its constituents, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other stellar systems, many other planetary systems may have similar elements. The rain of water
Water exists as vapor in:

Solar Atmosphere: in visible trace amounts
Mercury’s atmosphere: 3.4%, with more water in Mercury’s exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002% . Terrestrial atmosphere: ≈0.40% in absolute atmosphere, typically 1–4% at surface
The Moon’s atmosphere: to a lesser extent
Mars Atmosphere: 0.03% . The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter’s atmosphere: 0.0004% – in ice only; and of its moon Europa
Saturn’s atmosphere – on ice only; Enceladus: 91% with Dione (subterranean ocean) . Atmosphere of Uranus – with trace concentrations below 50 bar
Atmosphere of Neptune – found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Constellations: not only in cool stars and are seen even in hot giant stars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. The water of the water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe liquid water is present on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometre deep ocean about 30–40 kilometers beneath Enceladus’ south polar surface, and Titan, as a subterranean layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface characteristics that suggest an ocean of liquid water underground. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
The water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under regolith and at the poles. Earth–Moon system: mainly as ice caps on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA’s Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization’s Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Moons of Jupiter: Surface of Europa and also of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto–Charon system
Comets and related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it may also feature in:

Tablets of Mercury
Tethys

Unusual features
Water and other volatile matter probably form most of the interiors of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deeper layers may be in the form of ionic liquid in which molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper as superionic liquid in which oxygen crystallizes lattice. Settlement of water and planets
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were slightly closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million miles), conditions that allow all three features to exist simultaneously would be less likely. The mass of the earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including the moisture in the air. Small planets like Mars have very thin atmospheres or none. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain unstable surface temperatures when present in normal quantities. The state of water on a planet depends on the local pressure, which is determined by the gravitational pull of the planet. If the planet is massive enough, the water on it can solidify even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is the politics concerned with water and water resources. Water, especially freshwater, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element of many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but nearly a billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world’s population will be exposed to risk from water. The report, released in November 2009, estimates that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The share of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report stated that "there is enough water for everyone", . but that access to it is hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid delivery efficiency, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been taken up by water sector donors as effectively as they have in education and health, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects with recipient governments. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor management as one cause of some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions relating to water management are made. Effective water management is primarily about knowing what practices work best in a particular physical and socioeconomic context. Mistakes have sometimes been made in attempting to apply ‘blueprints’ applicable to the developed world to developing world environments and conditions. The Mekong River is another example; an International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries dependent on the Mekong River for water found that comprehensive and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely conducted. They also found that Cambodia’s draft water law was far more complex than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related illnesses, often linked to inadequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO’s Global Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) lack access to safely regulated sanitation. Urban people (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity was described as existing, due to overuse and pollution. The report says 10% of the world’s population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is projected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of the floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations concerned with water security include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute undertakes projects with the aim of implementing effective water management to reduce poverty. Water-related treaties are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 July. By 2026, the United Nations has declared that humanity has entered an era of "Water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of the Great Lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world population lives in water insecure countries and water shortages for about one month a year, and droughts cost $307 billion a year. It called for policies in line with reality rather than the norms of the past. In the culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in many religions. Faiths that include ritual bathing (bathing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or immersion or dipping) in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (here called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in clean water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using pure water (wudu), except when water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all ceremonies to purify a person or a place (e.g., in the misogi ceremony). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places, and things, or as a means to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it to be the ylem, or fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle portrayed as an astronomer and engineer, argued that the earth, which is denser than water, came from water. Thales, the monist, believed further that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron – it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The idea of ​​the four humors of the body relates to water and phlegm, as cold and wet. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a symbol. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states, "The divine version is like (that of) water." The art of water arises by its benefiting all things, and its taking, without struggle (on the contrary), the lowest place which all men dislike." Hence (its way) is nearer (to) the Tao" and "Nothing on earth is softer and weaker than water, so much) by which it can be changed." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 further elaborates on the symbolism of water, proclaiming that "man is water" and attributing the natural qualities of the people of different regions of China to the character of local water resources
"Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Consider Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian distinction of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related idea of ​​a magical water that is supposed to prevent aging. Professionalism and service delivery
In the seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the "Ithaca" chapter takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song isn't just a "monotonous string of facts," rather, its phrases, like their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, gather and break, until they subside to the quiet stillness of 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant pools in the waning moon.' of the most impressive passages in Ithaca, and according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, achieves "the impossible feat of lifting into prose the whole condensation of footling information collected in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, everlasting life," and the song represents the end of the motif in the novel. The following is the song quoted in its entirety. What did Bloom, a water-lover, a water-digger, a returning navigator, love in water?Its universality: its democratic equanimity and consistency in nature in seeking its status: its vastness in Mercator's hypothetical sea: its plumbed depth in Sundam's Pacific tunnel over 8,000 fathoms: namely the constancy of its waves and surface currents visiting in succession all points of its coastline: the independence of its units: the variability of sea levels: its hydrostatic stillness in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in circumpolars icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3 to 1 rise above global dry land: its undisputed dominance extending square leagues over the entire area below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its primeval basin: its luteofulvous bed: its capacity to melt and hold in solution all soluble matter including millions of tons of the most precious metals: its slow erosion of peninsulas and subsiding promontories: its alluvial deposits: weight and volume and density: its unobtrusiveness in lagoons and highland tarns: its gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid zones: its vehicular impacts on continental lakecontained streams and confluent oceanflowing rivers and their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulfstream, north and south equatorial courses: its violence on ocean oscillations, waterfalls, artesian springs, eruptions, streams, circles, circles, spheres, earth shelves, watersheds, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, hurricanes, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its vast circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its mystery in springs, and hidden moisture, revealed by rhabdomantic devices or hygrometric and indicated by a source by a hole in the wall at the entrance to Ashtown, the saturation of air, the condensation of dew: the lightness of its composition, two parts forming hydrogen and one part oxygen: its healing virtue: its solubility in Dead Sea waters inadequate, leaks on board: its cleansing, thirst and fire quenching, vegetation nourishing properties: its infallibility as paradigm and paragon: its transmutation as vapour, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, hail: its power in rigid hydrants: its diversity of forms in loughs and bays and gulfs and bights and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and tidal estuaries and arms of the sea: its hardiness against glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its efficiency in canals, rivers, when navigable, floating and graving docks: their potential comes from harnessed tides or watercourses falling from level to level: their underwater fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, world population: ubiquitous as constituting 90% of human body: noxiousness of its effluvia in marshes of lakes, plague enclosures, vanished flower ponds, stagnant pools in the waning moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster chose The Value of Water, in St. Peter’s Cathedral, for the first time. John the Divine in New York City, which supported the Cathedral’s year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to take place at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of the UN’s declaration of access to water and sanitation as a human right, charity WaterAid has commissioned 10 artists to illustrate the impact of clean water on people’s lives. The joke of dihydrogen monoxide
‘Dihydrogen monoxide’ is a technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been applied to a series of scams and hoaxes that mock scientific ignorance. This began in 1983, when an April Fools’ Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false case had safety concerns about the ingredient. The music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based rappers as a kind of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Furthermore other rappers have performed entire songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Definitions
References
Works cited
Continuous reading
External links

Soil Water Data Sheet
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Timeline: Water Conflict Database Retrieved 16 January 2013 from Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS) . Portal on World Bank strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association archived March 24, 2018 in the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived 28 March 2014 from the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes,
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 on the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association of Water and Precipitation Characteristics Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary