Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is a major component of Earth's rivers, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, in which it plays the role of a solvent. Water is a polar molecule and undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. Although it does not provide food energy or is an organic trace element, it is essential for all known forms of life. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent." Because the temperature and pressure of the Earth's surface are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It produces precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended droplets of water and ice in its solid state. When finely divided, crystalline ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, and seas and oceans make up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Smaller parts of water are found in groundwater (1.7%), Antarctic and Greenland glaciers and glaciers (1.7%), and in the air in the form of water vapor, clouds (consisting of ice and liquid water suspended in air) and precipitation (0.001%). Water is constantly moving through the water cycle of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation, and runoff, usually reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been and continue to be a major food source for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by boat across seas, rivers, lakes, and canals. Industry and homes use large quantities of water, ice and steam for cooling and heating. Water is a very good solvent for mineral and organic matter; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes, cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other recreational activities, including swimming, boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (also Old Saxon watars, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzari, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European root *watar, *ffix-edwed, ("water"; "wet"). It is also related through an Indo-European root to Greek ōdōr (ýdor; Ancient Greek hýdōr (hýdōr), hence English "hydro-"), Russian vodá (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian увё. History
On the ground
Characteristics
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless, blue liquid. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, but it is weak in dissolving nonpolar substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water in nature almost always contains various dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists as a solid, liquid, or gas under normal terrestrial conditions. States
Along with oxidant, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (steam to water), sublimation (ice to steam), and precipitation (steam to ice). Density
Water is one of the few simple substances that expands and becomes less dense when cooled within a certain temperature range; It is the only natural substance in liquid form. In addition, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly less dense when frozen, although it is not unique in this respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below this temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. When it freezes and turns into ice, water expands by about 9% and has a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cubic ft). This expansion can cause great pressure, burst pipes and crack rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the typical behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on Earth. Water at 4 °C (39 °F) in a lake or ocean sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface of the liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing hard. Most aquatic organisms living in these unprotected lakes die in winter. In addition, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation, which distributes heat around our planet's oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve significant interaction. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F), while water boils or steam condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below its boiling point, water can turn into vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation through a liquid is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on surfaces. For example, frost accumulates on cold surfaces, while snowflakes form when an aerosol particle or ice core settles. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure, so the ice on its surface is sublimated. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    c
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    c
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          c
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_ {\text{S}}}
  
 molar volumes of liquid and solid phases and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. Most substances increase in volume when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice volumes, resulting in the formation of subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relation also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid in the deep ocean or at high temperatures underground. For example, Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park, has temperatures in excess of 205 °C (401 °F). At hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). The boiling point of water at sea level is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with height, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 feet), the cooking time should be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. Water boils at room temperature in a vacuum. Three and critical points
A pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure) has curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 MPa (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At high temperatures and pressures, the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the supercritical fluid. Can gradually compress or expand between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (quite different from those of the surrounding water) are density sensitive. For example, for suitable pressure and temperature, it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications, including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an environmentally friendly solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. It acts as a solvent in the process of mineral formation, melting and deposition in the Earth's mantle. Ice and water phases
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another one with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can form in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, ice forms other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and several more have been theoretically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic, superionic ice phase, was discovered when a water droplet was subjected to a shock wave, raising the pressure of the water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in the formation of solid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Fresh water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have special sensors that detect the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs can smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) usually has a lot of dissolved substances that can give different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge whether water is potable to avoid water that is too salty or rotten. Color and appearance
Pure water has a visible blue color due to the absorption of light in the region c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed against a clean white background in daylight. The main absorption lines responsible for the color are the tones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This is also true for a swimming pool, for example, when the light source is sunlight reflecting off the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the greater intensity of the water undertones means that glass cuvettes with shorter path lengths can be used. In the region around 3500 cm−1 (2.85 μm), a path of about 25 μm is required to observe the main extended absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution. In addition, the cuvette should be transparent and insoluble in water around 3500 cm−1; calcium fluoride is one of the commonly used materials for cuvette glass with aqueous solutions. Raman-active fundamental oscillations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 feet) receive almost no sunlight. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarization
In the water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are located near the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. The remaining two corners contain lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, such as methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge, while the hydrogen atoms have a partial positive charge. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent and dissolves many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide—the latter providing the gas in carbonated drinks, sparkling wines, and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA, and polysaccharides, are soluble in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules shapes protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Most inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are ten times stronger than the van der Waals force that pulls molecules together in most liquids. Therefore, the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than those of other similar compounds, such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its very high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g) and thermal conductivity (0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective at moderating Earth's climate by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond of 492 kJ/mol). 90% of this is electrostatic and the remaining 10% is partially covalent. These bonds are the cause of water's high surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to rise up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this feature. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide, and together with the resulting solution of hydronium and hydroxide ions, there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of a small amount of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition process requires more energy than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be assumed to be incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility under normal conditions ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10-10 Pa-1. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, in water with a pressure of 400 atm, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water varies between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km per 1 kHz), a property used by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On the ground
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water across the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The science that studies the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, that of glaciers is glaciology, that of inland waters is limnology, and that of oceans is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The total mass of water found on, under, and on the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The estimated volume of water on Earth (the world's total water supply) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water exists in bodies of water such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds, or ponds. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It is also present in aquifers as groundwater. Water is important in many geological processes. Many rocks contain groundwater, and this groundwater pressure affects failure patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that forms volcanoes in subduction zones. Water on Earth's surface is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water and, to a lesser but still significant extent, ice are also responsible for the large amount of sediment transport that occurs at the Earth's surface. The displaced sediment forms the many types of sedimentary rocks that form the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically called the hydrological cycle) is a continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in the water cycle, which consists of the following transfer processes:

evaporation into the air from oceans and other bodies of water and transpiration into the air from land plants and animals. precipitation, the condensation of water vapor from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. runoff from land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean is returned to it, but winds transport water vapor to the sea at the same rate as water, 47 Tt per year, and evaporation and transpiration from land masses another 72 Tt per year. On land, 119 Tt of precipitation per year takes several forms: mostly rain, snow and hail, fog and dew contribute. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high-density water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also refract sunlight to form a rainbow. Runoff often collects in watersheds that flow into rivers. As a result of erosion, running water shapes the environment, creating river valleys and deltas that create rich soil and flat land for settlement. A flood usually occurs when an area of ​​low-lying land is covered by water, overflowing its banks, or a storm surge. A drought, on the other hand, is a period of long months or years when a region experiences a shortage of water supplies. This occurs when a region consistently receives below-average rainfall due to its topography or latitudinal location. Water resources
Water resources are natural resources of water that are potentially useful to humans, such as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water appears as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. About 69 percent of the total volume of global fresh water is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent in underground water; the remaining 1 percent is in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere, and biota. Reservoir retention time is highly variable: some aquifers contain water stored for thousands of years, but the size of lakes can change seasonally, decreasing in dry periods and increasing in wet periods. For some areas, a significant part of the water supply is water withdrawn from water stored in reserves, and if withdrawals exceed payments, reserves are reduced. According to some estimates, about 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, leading to groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of 3.5% sodium chloride, as well as smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at a lower temperature (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)), and its density increases as the temperature decreases to its freezing point, rather than reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the large seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (Known for its extremely high salinity of 30 to 40%, the Dead Sea is indeed a salt lake.)
Tides - The cyclical rise and fall of local sea level due to the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of marine and estuarine water bodies and create oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The changing tides produced at a given location are the result of the changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth, combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local bathymetry. The intertidal zone, a coastline submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, is an important ecological product of ocean waves. Impact on life
From a biological point of view, water has many unique properties that are very important for the reproduction of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in a way that ultimately allows replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is essential both as a solvent in which many soluble substances dissolve in the body and as an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (via energy-requiring enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (such as starches, triglycerides, and proteins for fuel and information storage). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to form smaller molecules (such as glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuel for energy or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes would not exist. Water is essential for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate hydrogen from oxygen in water. When exposed to sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuel to capture solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration) and oxidize hydrogen and carbon. Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e. proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, such as a hydroxide ion (OH-), a proton acceptor to form water. Water is neutral, with an ideal pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7. Acids have a pH of less than 7, and bases have a pH of more than 7. Aquatic life forms
The waters of the earth are filled with life. The earliest forms of life appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals such as dolphins and whales. Some species of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part of their lives on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton is usually the base of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, but some fish species, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals must occasionally surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a wide range of adaptations for living in deoxygenated waters, including respiratory tubes (insect and mollusk siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in aquatic environments, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and major waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, was located between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The Early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BC - 1300 BC) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber River in Italy. Major megacities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and the resulting expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors like Singapore thrived for the same reason. Access to clean drinking water has been and continues to be a key driver of human development in water-scarce areas such as North Africa and the Middle East. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Drinking water can be made drinkable by filtration or distillation or other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but is safe for swimming or bathing is known by various names other than potable or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant and is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and usually controlled by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1-2 ppm unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition by chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone, or by ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (often called sewage and also municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. 2.3 billion people live in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cubic feet) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13 × 10^12 cubic feet) of municipal wastewater are produced annually worldwide. Freshwater is a renewable resource that circulates through the natural hydrological cycle, but pressures on its inputs are naturally uneven in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and population growth. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations set Millennium Development Goals to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation by 2015. Progress towards this goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation lead to death; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is discharged untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, accounting for about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of them withdraw more water each year than is replenished by natural water cycles. The strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human use
Agriculture
The largest human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated farming, which accounts for 80-90 percent of total water consumption. In the United States, 42% of the fresh water withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the "consumed" (used and not returned to the environment) water goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built complex water systems for water collection, treatment and delivery, and wastewater disposal. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for sustainable water resources and the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-hungry meat consumption expands, and new demands for biofuels or fresh water-intensive industries grow, new water challenges may emerge. In 2007, an assessment of agricultural water use by the International Water Institute in Sri Lanka was conducted to determine whether there is enough water to feed the world's growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture globally and mapped areas suffering from water scarcity. It found that one-fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas with physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity prevent authorities from meeting water needs. The report found that it is possible to produce the food that will be needed in the future, but that the continuation of today's food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers must try to increase yields to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities must find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also associated with the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cubic feet) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4 percent of global water use, water is consumed in areas already at risk of water scarcity. The environment has been greatly damaged: for example, the disappearance of the Aral Sea was largely caused by the former Union's diversion of the Amudarya and Syrdarya waters for cotton cultivation. As a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, in France, the gram was defined as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundredth of a cubic meter and at the melting temperature of ice." For practical purposes, a metal reference standard was required, which is a thousand times larger than the kilogram. Therefore, the work was assigned to accurately determine the mass of one liter of water. Although the well-established definition of the gram indicates water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—the scientists chose to redefine the standard and conduct their measurements at the highest water density temperature measured at the time to be 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was originally based on the triple point of water, set at 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on Boltzmann's constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined by the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but smaller amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium) are present. The proportion of heavier isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. The waters of rivers and lakes contain less heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Average Ocean Water Specification. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, but can range from 45% to 75% in humans. The US National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend that adults consume 3.7 L (0.98 US gallons) of water per day for men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gallons) for women. The exact amount depends on the activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of these are ingested through food or beverages other than drinking water directly. The medical literature recommends consuming less, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. During exercise, people can drink more water than they should, putting them at risk of water intoxication (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The famous claim that "a person should consume eight glasses of water a day" does not seem to have a real basis in science. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at meals, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake can help prevent constipation. In 1945, the original recommendation for water intake by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council stated: "A normal standard for different people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this amount is available in prepared foods." The U.S. National Research Council's latest Dietary Intake Report recommended based on average total water intake from U.S. research data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal for women), about 19% non-dietary water. total water consumption in the study. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends an average intake of 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) for men and 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal) for women; Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups) because a lot of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It's also important to note that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the rest coming from drinking water and beverages (which contain caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through perspiration, and through the release of water vapor in the breath. Water loss increases with physical exertion and heat, and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutions are acceptable and even desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The only large (by volume) freshwater source suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Washing
Transportation
Chemical use
Water is widely used as a solvent or reactant in chemical reactions, and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent that dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. It is not usually used as a reaction solvent in organic reactions because it does not dissolve reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these features are sometimes desirable. Acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water was also observed. Supercritical water has recently become a research topic. Oxygenated supercritical water effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange due to their availability and high heat capacity for both cooling and heating. Cold water can even be naturally present from a lake or sea. Heat transfer by evaporation and condensation of water is particularly efficient because of its large latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that commonly found industrial metals such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed circuit between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and cooling water (used to transfer waste heat to a water reservoir or remove it by evaporation in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest use of water. Water can also be used as a neutron moderator in nuclear power. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. But other methods are preferred to stop the reaction, and it is preferable to keep the nuclear core covered with water for adequate cooling. Thoughts on fire
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good firefighting liquid. Evaporation of water takes heat away from the fire. The use of water on fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because many organic substances float in the water and the water tends to spread the burning liquid. Consideration should be given to the use of water in firefighting, as well as the risk of vapor explosions that can occur when water is used on very hot indoor fires, and hydrogen explosions when hot carbon, such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decomposes water and forms gases that react with water. The power of such explosions was demonstrated in the Chernobyl tragedy, although in this case the water involved was not from extinguishing the fire, but from the water cooling system of the reactor. A steam explosion occurred when the superheated core caused water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion can occur as a result of the reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, especially alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when they react with water that they can be a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often shipped in paper bags. If they are absorbed, they can burn when they react with the water they contain. Rest
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports such as ice hockey and ice skating are played. Lakes, beaches, and water parks are popular places for people to go for recreation and relaxation. Many find the sound and sight of running water soothing, and fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for show, fun and companionship. People also use the water for snow sports such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, for which the water turns into ice or snow at low temperatures. Water industry
Water management provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting cisterns, water supply networks and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes, including old aqueducts. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected in springs, taken from artificial boreholes (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in appropriate locations is a possible way to produce more water if the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require treatment for human consumption. This may include the removal of undissolved matter, dissolved matter, and harmful microbes. Popular methods are sand filtration, which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful microbes. Distillation performs all three functions. There are advanced techniques such as reverse osmosis. Bulk seawater desalination is a more expensive solution used in coastal arid climates. The distribution of drinking water is carried out through municipal water systems, tankers or in the form of bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to those in need. Another option is to reduce the use of potable (potable) water by using it only for human consumption. In some cities, such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution is perhaps the greatest misuse of water; to the extent that the pollutant limits other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, it is not included in the standard calculation of market costs because it is understood as an externality that the market cannot account for. Thus, other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not distributed to the local people who are victims of this pollution. Pharmaceutical products consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and do not biodegrade. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Mitigation of contaminated surface runoff is accomplished through various prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on water-dissolved chemicals, suspensions of solids in aqueous solutions, or reactions using water to dissolve and extract substances or wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and power plant cooling use large amounts of water, which require a dedicated water source and often result in significant water pollution. Water is used in energy production. Hydroelectricity is electricity from hydropower. Hydroelectric power is obtained from water that drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectric power is a cheap, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built over the river and an artificial lake is created behind it. Water from the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in cooling machines to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. In addition to being used as a chemical solvent, water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers. Using untreated water for industrial purposes is pollution. Contamination includes release solutions (chemical contamination) and cooling water (thermal contamination). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment methods for water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially AI, consumes large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often involve immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays a very important role in the field of food science. Dissolves in water such as salts and sugars affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at low temperatures and forms at high altitudes when air pressure is lower. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Dissolved substances in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and microbial growth in food. Water activity can be described as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Dissolved substances in water reduce water activity - this is important to know, because most bacteria will stop at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also food storage and shelf life. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of the product, and also plays the role of plumbing. Water hardness is classified according to the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/l (UK) or 60 mg/l (US). According to a 2010 report by the organization Water Footprint, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also note that this is a global average and that situational factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is included in the list of essential medicines of the World Health Organization. Distribution in nature
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe is formed as a byproduct of star formation. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When this outflow of material eventually impacts the surrounding gas, the resulting shock waves compress and heat the gas. Observed water forms rapidly in this hot dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more water than all the oceans on Earth combined" around a quasar 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been widespread in the universe for almost all of its existence." Water has been detected in the interstellar clouds inside the Milky Way. Water may also be abundant in other galaxies because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most common elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems may have similar components. Water vapor
Water exists in vapor form:

Solar atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% in the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: trace amounts
Martian atmosphere: 0.03%
Atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - only in ice; and its satellite Europe
Saturn's atmosphere - only in ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Uranus atmosphere - in trace amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere is located in deep layers
Extrasolar planetary atmospheres: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmosphere: not limited to cooler stars and even detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Interstellar disks: AA Tauri also contains more than half of the T Tauri stars, including TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water exists on Earth and covers 71% of its surface. Liquid water also occasionally occurs in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water on Enceladus' Saturnian moons may have mixed with ammonia as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30-40 kilometers below the surface of Enceladus' south pole and as Titan's subsurface. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists on ice:

 Mars: Under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly in Earth's ice sheets and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported in September 2009 that water molecules were detected by NASA's Lunar Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: the surface of Europa, as well as Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And also possibly in:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Exotic shapes
Water and other volatiles probably comprise most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune, and the water in the deeper layers may be ionized water, in which the molecules are a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper, like superionized water where oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions may be roughly in the form of free flotoxide. The ability to live on water and planets
As we know, the existence of liquid water on Earth, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, is essential for the existence of life on Earth. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; If it were slightly closer or further away from the Sun (about 5% or about 8 million kilometers), it would be extremely unlikely that the conditions would exist that would allow all three forms to exist simultaneously. The size of the Earth also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air humidity. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that, when present in regular amounts, helps maintain a relatively stable surface temperature. The state of water on the planet depends on the environmental pressure, which is determined by the gravitational force of the planet. If a planet is massive enough, its water can be solid even at high temperatures because of the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water policy is a policy influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and an important element in many political conflicts. It affects health and harms biodiversity. Access to clean drinking water has improved in almost all parts of the world in recent decades, but an estimated one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers estimate that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water-based vulnerability. According to a report published in November 2009, by 2030 the demand for water in some developing regions of the world will exceed the supply by 50%. Since 1990, 1.6 billion people have had access to safe water. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water improved from 30 percent in 1970 to 71 percent in 1990, 79 percent in 2000, and 84 percent in 2004. hampered by mismanagement and corruption. In addition, global initiatives to improve aid effectiveness, such as the Paris Declaration, have not been used as effectively by donors in the water sector as they have been in the education and health sectors, which can leave multiple donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without leverage. In 2007, the authors of the Comprehensive Assessment of Water Resources Management in Agriculture cited poor management as one of the causes of some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing which processes work best in a given physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by applying "projects" that work in the developed world to developing world locations and contexts. The Mekong River is an example; A review of the policies of six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water by the International Water Management Institute found that comprehensive and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's water bill is more complicated than it needs to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to inadequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, developed by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. According to the 2023 report, two billion people (26 percent of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion people (46 percent) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in cities (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. According to the report, 10 percent of the world's population lives in countries with high or severe water scarcity. Nevertheless, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year over the past 40 years and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled and flooding in the northern midlatitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods from 2000 to 2019 was 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations related to water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Institute for Water Resources Management implements projects aimed at the efficient use of water resources to reduce poverty. Water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, and the Ramsar Convention. March 22 is World Water Day, and June 8 is World Oceans Day. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered a period of "water bankruptcy", as more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without access to water, and at least 4 billion people experience water shortages every year. drought costs $307 billion a year. He demanded a policy that was in line with reality, not the norms of the past. Madaniyatda
Din
Ko'pgina dinlarda suv tozalovchi hisoblanadi. Beliefs that involve ritual washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shintoism, Taoism, and Wicca. Human baptism (or aspersion or affusion) is a central rite of Christianity (here called baptism); it is part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (ghusl), Judaism (mikvah), and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, many religions, including Islam and Judaism, practice bathing in clean water for the dead. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (ablution), if water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or an area (for example, in the misogi ceremony). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest as a means of baptism, blessing people, places and things, or warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (ab) is revered as the source of life. Falsafa
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth, and air) and regarded it as the basic substance, or ylem, of the universe. Described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, Thales developed a theory that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that everything was created from water. Plato believed that the shape of water is icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four bodily humors associates water with phlegm as cold and wet. The classical element of water was also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing states: "The highest perfection is like water. The excellence of water is that it benefits all things and occupies the low place (on the contrary) that all men do not like. Therefore (its way) is close to the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world softer and weaker than water, but nothing superior to it in attacking strong and strong things." no, because there is nothing (so effective) that can change it." "water" and connecting the natural qualities of the inhabitants of different regions of China to the character of local water resources. Folklore. "Living water" appears in Germanic and Slavic folk tales as a means of raising the dead. Note the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The fountain of youth represents the corresponding concept of magical waters that prevent aging. Art and activism
In Irish author James Joyce's seminal modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "hymn to the water". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not simply "a series of monotonous facts" but its phrases, like its subject, "the killing fens, the withered flower water, stagn The stagn the moons," rise and rise, rise and swell, gather and break, until they fall into a final stillness. It is one of the most remarkable passages in Ithaca and, according to the literary critic Hugh Kenner, "achieves the wonderful success of raising to poetry all the chaos that has accumulated in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, changing life", and the hymn represents the climax of the motif in the novel. Below is a full quote from the hymn. What did Bloom, the water lover, the water hauler, the water hauler who returned to the landfill, admire in the water? Its universality: its democratic equality and stability to its nature in seeking its level: its immensity in the ocean of the Mercator projection: the infinite depth of the Pacific Ocean in the Sundam Trench. and the particles of the surface visit all points of the sea-coast in turn: the independence of its units: the variability of the state of the sea: the hydrostatic stillness in the calm: the hydrokinetic stagnation in the tides and spring seasons: the subsidence after the destruction: the barrenness in the polar glaciers, before the arctic and antarctic: its sign. In the dry lands of the globe: its undisputed hegemony, spread in square leagues over all the region below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the many-worldly stability of its original basin: its undulating bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances, including millions of tons of retarding metals: its promontories: its alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and density: its water in lagoons and mountain deserts impermeability: its colorful and gradation in temperate and cold zones: its tributaries of vehicles in continental lakes, rivers and rivers that join the ocean and their northern and southern tributaries: southern rivers. Equatorial currents: its sea-quakes, pools of water, artesian wells, eruptions, floods, eddies, pools of water, watersheds, geysers, cataracts, eddies, eddies, floods, floods, violence in cloudbursts: Springs and hidden moisture, detected by rhabdomantic or hygrometrical instruments, and exemplified by a well through a hole in the wall at Ashtown Gate, of the air saturation, distillation of dew: simplicity of its composition, two components of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: identity of water: sea: rivers, ravines, inaccuracy of dams, leaks in a ship: purification, quenching of thirst and fire, nourishing properties of plants: inaccuracy as paradigm and analogy: steam, mist, cloud, rain, rain, mist such as its metamorphoses in bays, inlets, gulfs, coasts, inlets, lagoons, atolls, archipelagos, sounds, fjords, minches, tidal rivers and sea arms: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, glaciers: working hydraulic wheels, turbines, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations, power stations and others. tanneries, sleeper mills: its usefulness in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating and stony banks: its potential is derived from flood or surface currents: its underwater fauna and flora (anaacoustic, photophobic) numbers, if not literally, its inhabitants: its body: in lake marshes, in pestilential plants, extinct in the waters of the flower, in the stagnant pools of the waning moon, the perniciousness of its effluents. Artist and activist Frederica Foster directed The Dignity of Water at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, the foundation of the cathedral's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornick, Kiki Smith, Pat Stair, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez, and Bill Viola. Foster created an ecological community of artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Ireland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Dow, Stacey Levy, Charlotte Côté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna McLeod. To mark 10 years since the UN declared access to water and sanitation a human right, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
"Hydrogen monoxide" is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. This name has been used in a series of lies and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when a newspaper in Durand, Michigan ran an April Fools' Day article. The false story consisted of safety concerns about the substance. Music
The word "water" has been used as a catchphrase or adlib by many Florida-based rappers. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. In addition, some rappers have created entire songs about Florida water, such as the 2023 song "Florida Water" by Danny Towers. See also
Notes
References
Works Cited
Further reading
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
Timeline of the Water Conflict: The Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013, at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal of the World Bank's water strategy, activities and related publications
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018, at the Wayback Machine
Water on the Internet
Water Structure and Science Archived December 28, 2014, at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 min, 2019
Water Chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022, at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS Documentary