Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless and almost colorless chemical. It is a major component of Earth's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living organisms, in which it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, undergoes strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding, which greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is vital to all known life forms, despite not providing food energy or being an organic micronutrient. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its worldwide abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because Earth's surface temperature and pressure are relatively close to the triple point of water, water exists on Earth in solid, liquid, and gaseous forms. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of mist. Clouds consist of water droplets and suspended ice, its solid state. When broken down, crystallized ice can precipitate as snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans accounting for the majority of water volume (about 96.5%). A small portion of water exists as groundwater (1.7%), in glaciers and ice caps in Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as vapor, clouds (including ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through cycles of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), condensation, precipitation and flow, often reaching the sea. Water plays an important role in the world economy. About 70% of the freshwater used by humans is used for agriculture. Fishing in salt and freshwater areas has been and continues to be a major source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of global protein. Much of the long-distance trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large amounts of water, ice and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; therefore, it is widely used in industrial processes as well as in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, sailing, sailing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water is derived from Old English wæter, Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian Wetir, Netherlands, Old German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), Proto-Indo-European *wod-or, suffixed form of the root *wed- ('water'; 'wet'). Also cognate, via Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from which English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce and Albanian ujë. History
on earth
Attributes
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature, it is a tasteless and odorless liquid, almost colorless with a slight blue color. As the simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is by far the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" because of its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it dissolves nonpolar substances poorly. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water found in nature is almost always composed of many different dissolved substances, and special steps are required to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance that exists in solid, liquid, and gaseous form under normal terrestrial conditions. state
Along with oxyan, water is one of two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. Two other common states of water matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, steam or water vapor. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase transitions: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to steam), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor), and deposition (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes more dilute as it cools over certain temperature ranges; it is the only known naturally occurring substance in liquid form. Additionally, it is unusual in that it becomes significantly thinner upon freezing, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches its freezing point, at which its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). When the water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the amount of water will decrease. When it freezes and becomes ice, water expands about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause enormous pressure, bursting pipes and cracking rocks. As a solid, it exhibits the usual behavior of contracting and becoming more dense as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom and ice forms on the surface, floating on top of the liquid water. This layer of ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing into solid form. Without this protection, most aquatic organisms in the lake would die during the winter. Additionally, this unusual behavior is an important part of the thermohaline cycle that helps distribute heat around the planet's oceans. magnetic
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with superconducting magnets it can achieve remarkable interaction. Phase change
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapor condenses at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can turn to vapor on the surface due to evaporation (evaporation throughout the liquid is called boiling). Sublimation and deposition also occur on the surface. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snowflakes form by depositing on aerosols or ice nuclei. During the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then stored at low pressure so that the ice layer on the surface sublimates. Melting point and boiling point depend on pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius–Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of fusion. In most substances, volume increases as melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is lighter than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure-induced melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice, leading to subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can exist in a liquid state at high temperatures in the deep sea or underground. For example, temperatures exceeded 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1°C every 274 meters. Cooking at altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at an altitude of 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking time by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple point and critical point
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves separating solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. They meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is called the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures, the liquid phase and vapor phase form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be compressed or expanded gradually between gas-like density and liquid density; Its properties (quite different from those of surrounding water) are very sensitive to density. For example, at appropriate pressure and temperature, it is freely miscible with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in many applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during the formation, dissolution, and deposition of minerals. Phases of ice and water
The common form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. Another type with cubic crystal symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystalline structures. As of 2024, 20 cases have been confirmed experimentally and many more are predicted theoretically. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered cubic supersonic ice phase, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that increased the water's pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, the tape forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of liquid water are not well understood; some theorize that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Pure water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have specific sensors that can sense the presence of water in the mouth and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from conventional sources (including mineral water) often has many dissolved substances that can create different flavors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that allow them to judge the potability of water to avoid it being too salty or rotting. Color and appearance
Pure water has a visible blue color due to the absorption of light in region c. 600–800 nm. The color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a pure white background, in daylight. The main absorption bands that produce color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies to a swimming pool, for example, when the light source is sunlight reflecting off the pool's white tiles. In nature, color can also vary from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions because the lower overtone intensity of greater water means that short path length glass cuvettes can be used. To observe the fundamental stretching absorption spectrum of water or of an aqueous solution in the region of about 3,500 cm-1 (2.85 μm), a path length of about 25 μm is required. Additionally, the cuvette must be approximately 3500 cm−1 transparent and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a commonly used material for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. For example, the fundamental vibrations of Raman activity can be observed with a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep because sunlight can reach them. Practically no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glasses (1.4 to 1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atom forms an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. Hydrogen atoms are located near the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. In the remaining two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between the lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between the hydrogen atoms. The O–H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a partial negative charge while the hydrogen atom has a partial positive charge. Together with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and it is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – these gases create the bubbles in carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many substances in living organisms such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides are dissolved in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biological macromolecules shapes protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important for life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats, oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, meaning they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bond
Due to its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also explain its exceptionally high specific heat (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in regulating Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting heat between the oceans and atmosphere. The hydrogen bond of water is about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O–H bond of 492 kJ/mol). Of these, it is estimated that 90% is electrostatic, while the remaining 10% is partly covalent. These bonds are responsible for the high surface tension and capillary force of water. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. All vascular plants, such as trees, rely on this property. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide – the equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with the dissolution of hydronium and hydroxide ions, is obtained. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases when small amounts of ionic materials such as common salt are dissolved. Liquid water can be separated into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it - a process called electrolysis. The decomposition process requires more energy input than the heat released from the inversion process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 under normal conditions. Even in oceans at a depth of 4 km, where there is a pressure of 400 atmospheres, the volume of water decreases by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges from 1,400 to 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property exploited by crustaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (ultrasound). reactivity
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and to a lesser extent the alkaline earth metals, repel hydrogen from water, forming hydroxide and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with water vapor to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. on earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of the distribution of water is hydrology. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, the study of glaciers is glaciology, the study of inland water is limnology, and the distribution of the ocean is oceanography. Ecological processes with hydrology are the focus of ecohydrology. The collective mass of water found on, under, and on the surface of a planet is called the hydrosphere. Earth's approximate water volume (total water supply to the world) is 1,386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as oceans, seas, lakes, rivers, streams, canals, ponds or puddles. Most of the water on Earth is seawater. Water is also present in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many geological processes. Groundwater is present in most rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects fracture patterns. Water in the mantle is what causes the melting that creates volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but still significant extent, ice, are also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on the earth's surface. Transported sediment deposition forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which make up the geologic record of Earth's history. Water cycle
The water cycle (scientifically called the hydrological cycle) is the continuous exchange of water in the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these zones in a water cycle that includes the following transfers:

evaporation from oceans and other bodies of water into the air and transpiration from terrestrial plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the earth or ocean. Currents from land often flow into the sea. Most of the water vapor found primarily in the ocean returns to the ocean, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as the flow to the sea, about 47 Tt per year while the evaporation and transpiration that occurs in land areas also contributes an additional 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, at a rate of 119 Tt per year over land, comes in many forms: most commonly rain, snow and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when high-density water vapor meets a cool surface. Dew often forms in the morning when temperatures are lowest, just before sunrise and when the earth's surface temperature begins to rise. Water condensed in the air can also refract sunlight to create rainbows. Runoff water often accumulates in watersheds that flow into rivers. Through erosion, flows shape the environment creating river valleys and deltas, which provide fertile land and level ground for the establishment of population centers. Floods occur when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying land, is covered by water, occurring when a river overflows its banks or a storm surge occurs. A drought, on the other hand, is a period lasting months or years when an area experiences a shortage of water supply. This occurs when an area consistently receives below-average rainfall due to its terrain or its location in terms of latitude. Water resources
Water resources are natural water resources that are potentially useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water occurs in both “storage” and “flow” forms. Water can be stored as lakes, steam, groundwater or aquifers, ice and snow. Of the total global volume of freshwater, an estimated 69% is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining 1% is in lakes, rivers, atmosphere and biota. The length of time water is stored in storage varies widely: some aquifers contain water stored for thousands of years, but the amount of water in a lake can fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A significant portion of the water supply for some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in storage, and when withdrawals exceed refills, the amount of stored water is reduced. According to some estimates, up to 30% of total water use for irrigation is due to unsustainable groundwater exploitation, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains an average of about 3.5% sodium chloride and small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in several important respects. It freezes at lower temperatures (about −1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases as the temperature decreases to the freezing point, rather than reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in major seas varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity of 30 to 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of sea levels due to the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Tides cause changes in the depth of ocean waters and estuaries and create fluctuating currents known as tidal currents. Varying tides are created at a given location as a result of changes in the positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth along with the effects of Earth's rotation and local depth. The coastal strip is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide. The intertidal zone is an important ecological product of the tide. Impact on life
From a biological perspective, water has many unique properties that are important for the development of life. It performs this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately enable replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important as a solvent for many solutes in the body and is an essential part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the combination of anabolism and catabolism. During anabolism, water is removed from molecules (through energy required enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (e.g., starch, triglycerides, and proteins to store fuel and information). During catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (e.g., glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids that are used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these special metabolic processes cannot exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use solar energy to separate hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture the sun's energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme function. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, i.e. a proton donor), can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH−) to form water. Water is considered neutral, having a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in its ideal state. Acids have pH values ​​less than 7 while bases have values ​​greater than 7. Water on the earth's surface teems with life. The earliest life forms appeared in water; Nearly all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some types of animals, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for several aquatic ecosystems. Plankton in general are the foundation of the ocean food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do it in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals such as dolphins, whales, otters and seals need to periodically surface to breathe air. Some amphibians can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates exhibit a variety of modifications to survive in hypoxic waters including snorkel (see insect siphon and mollusk) and gills (Carcinus). However, because invertebrates evolved in aquatic habitats, most of them have little or no respiratory expertise in water. Impact on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around major rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the cradles of civilization, lies between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; Ancient Egyptian society depended entirely on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian Tiber River. Major metropolises such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago and Hong Kong owed their success in part to easy access by water and to expanding trade. Islands with safe harbors like Singapore also thrive for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water has been a key factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or distillation or by a variety of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not fit for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is known by many names other than potable water and is sometimes called safe water or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is often monitored by government regulations (usually 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water and 1–2 ppm unreacted chlorine with impurities in bathing water). Bathing water can be maintained at satisfactory microbiological conditions by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly wastewater, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means each individual receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced globally each year. Freshwater is a renewable resource that circulates according to the natural hydrological cycle, but the pressure to access it is due to its naturally uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and a growing population. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goal to halve the proportion of people worldwide without access to clean water and sanitation by 2015. Progress toward that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the United Nations committed to the Sustainable Development Goals to achieve universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Water quality poor hygiene and sanitation are deadly; approximately five million deaths each year are due to water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water can prevent 1.4 million children from dying from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of urban wastewater still flows untreated into local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about a third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or high water scarcity, and 17 of these extract more water annually than is recharged through their natural water cycle. This strain not only affects surface freshwater bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater resources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most significant human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total human water consumption. In the United States, 42% of freshwater is used for irrigation, but the majority of “consumed” water (used and not returned to the environment) is used for agriculture. Access to fresh water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have built sophisticated water systems to collect, filter and deliver water and remove wastewater. But growing economic, demographic and climate pressures are increasing water concerns, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, thirsty meat consumption increases, and new demand for biofuels or new water-intensive industries increases, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was carried out in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see whether the world had enough water to feed a growing population. It assesses available water resources for agriculture globally and maps out locations where water is scarce. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion people, live in water-scarce areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. More than 1.6 billion more people live in economically water-scarce areas, where lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it impossible for authorities to meet water needs. The report shows that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but continued current food production and environmental trends will lead to crises in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to work to increase productivity to meet growing food demand, while industries and cities seek to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of products that use a lot of water. For example, cotton: 1 kilogram of cotton—equivalent to one pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of the world's water use, water is consumed in areas already at risk of water shortages. Significant environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was largely responsible for the disappearance of the Aral Sea. It is a scientific standard
On April 7, 1795, the gram was defined in France as "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equivalent to the cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". However, for practical purposes, it is necessary to have a metallic reference standard, one thousand times heavier, than the kilogram. Therefore, the assigned job was to accurately determine the volume of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the regulatory definition of grams specifies water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a highly reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and perform their measurements at the temperature with the highest water density, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The SI Kelvin temperature scale is based on the triple point of water, precisely defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019, the scale is based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale in the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, initially determined by the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17 and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The ratio of heavy isotopes is very small but still affects the properties of water. River and lake water tends to contain fewer heavy isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Seawater specifications. To drink
The human body contains an average of 50–60% water, depending on age, gender, and body size, although each person can have between 45% and 75%. The U.S. National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommend drinking 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water daily for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on activity level, temperature, humidity and other factors. Most of this intake is ingested through food or beverages in addition to drinking plain water. Medical literature advocates a lower intake, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, excluding additional requirements due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People may drink more water than they need during exercise, putting them at risk of water intoxication (dehydration), which can be fatal. The popular claim that “one should drink eight glasses of water a day” appears to have no real scientific basis. Studies have shown that extra water intake, especially up to 500 ml (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) at meals, is associated with weight loss. Drinking enough fluids is helpful in preventing constipation. An early 1945 water intake recommendation from the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council read: "The usual standard for many people is 1 ml per calorie of food. Most of this water is found in processed foods." The latest dietary reference report from the US National Research Council generally recommends, based on average total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) total water intake for women, noting that water contained in foods provides approximately 19% of total water intake in the survey. Specifically, pregnant and breastfeeding women need to supplement fluids to stay hydrated. The Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should drink 3 liters (12 cups), as an exceptional amount of fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It's also important to note that typically, about 20% of water intake comes from food, with the remainder coming from drinking water and beverages (including caffeine). Water is excreted from the body in many forms; through urine and feces, through sweat and through the exhalation of water vapor in the breath. With exertion and exposure to heat, fluid loss will increase and daily fluid needs may also increase. Humans need water with few impurities. Common impurities include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157 and Vibrio. Some solutes are acceptable and even desirable for improving taste and providing necessary electrolytes. The largest source of fresh water (by volume) suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. wash
Transportation
Use chemicals
Water is widely used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and less commonly as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a reaction solvent because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acid and base) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Additionally, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction with water was observed. Supercritical water has recently been a subject of research. Supercritical water saturated with oxygen effectively burns organic pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat generation capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water may even be available naturally from lakes or seas. It is especially effective in transporting heat through vaporization and condensation because of its large latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as steel and copper are oxidized more quickly by untreated water and steam. In most thermal power plants, water is used as a working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, steam turbine and condenser) and coolant (used to exchange waste heat to the water mass or carry it away by evaporation in the cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest users of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides a passive measure of safety, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However, other methods are preferred to stop the reaction and it is best to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, making it a good fire extinguishing fluid. The evaporation of water carries heat away from the fire. Using water to extinguish fires involving oils and organic solvents is dangerous because many organic substances float on the surface of the water and water tends to spread the burning liquid. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the risks of steam explosion, which can occur when using water to fight very hot fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal or coke, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved did not come from firefighting but from the water cooling system of the reactor itself. A steam explosion occurs when the core overheats, causing water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion can occur due to the reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metal oxides, most notably the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when reacting with water that they can pose a fire hazard. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance often shipped in paper bags. If these are soaked, they can catch fire when the contents react with the water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes as well as exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, windsurfing, sailing, surfing and diving. Additionally, some sports such as ice hockey and skating are also played on ice. Lakeshores, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to relax and have fun. Many people find the sound and appearance of flowing water to have a calming effect, and fountains and other flowing structures are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other flora and fauna inside aquariums or ponds for performance, amusement, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, snowboarding, snowboarding or snowboarding, which require water to stay at low temperatures as ice or crystallize as snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including wastewater treatment) to households and industry. Water supply facilities include wells, rainwater tanks, water supply networks and water filtration facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old water systems. Atmospheric water generators are under development. Drinking water is often collected in streams, taken from artificial wells (wells) underground or pumped from lakes and rivers. Therefore, building more wells in suitable places is a viable way to produce more water, assuming the aquifers can provide sufficient flow. Other water sources include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for humans. This may involve the removal of insoluble substances, soluble substances and harmful bacteria. Common methods of sand filtration remove only insoluble substances, while chlorination and boiling destroy harmful bacteria. Distillation performs all three functions. More advanced techniques exist, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water distribution is done through municipal water systems, shipped by tanker, or in the form of bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute free water to the poor. Reducing usage by using only potable water (potable water) for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets across the city to conserve fresh water resources. Water pollution is possibly the greatest misuse of water; To the extent that a pollutant limits other uses of water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the interests of the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this is not included in standard accounting for market costs, being considered externalities that cannot be accounted for by the market. Therefore, others have to pay the price for water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to local people, victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often drift into waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is often treated at wastewater treatment plants. Minimizing contaminated surface runoff is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment techniques. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions that use water-soluble chemicals, suspend solids in water, or use water to dissolve and extract substances or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, papermaking, textile manufacturing, dyeing, printing and cooling of power plants use large quantities of water, require specialized water sources and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used in electricity production. Hydropower is electricity obtained from hydropower. Hydroelectric energy comes from water that turns water turbines connected to generators. Hydroelectricity is a renewable, low-cost, non-polluting energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Typically a dam is built across a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. Water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in waterjets and waterjet cutting machines. High-pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It works very well, is relatively safe and does not harm the environment. It is also used in cooling machinery to prevent overheating or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machinery, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial activities is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solutes (chemical pollution) and discharged coolant (thermal pollution). Industry requires purified water for many applications and uses a variety of filtration techniques both in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial Intelligence, uses large amounts of water, so the expansion of AI could "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, steaming and simmering are common cooking methods that often require soaking foods in water or in a gaseous, steamy state. Water is also used to wash dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Solutes such as salt and sugar present in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by dissolved substances, as well as air pressure, which in turn is affected by altitude. Water boils at lower temperatures with lower air pressure than occurs at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram of water raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles will decrease the freezing point of water. Substances dissolved in water also affect water activity, which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of bacteria in food. Water activity can be described by the ratio between the vapor pressure of water in solution and the vapor pressure of pure water. Water-soluble substances have lower water activity—this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity levels. Microbial growth not only affects food safety but also affects the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be modified or treated using a chemical ion exchange system. It can significantly affect the quality of the product as well as play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate present in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and that contextual factors determine the amount of water used in beef production. medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distributed in nature
in the universe
Most of the water in the universe is created as a byproduct of star formation. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outward flow of gas and dust. When this flow of matter finally impacts the surrounding gas, shock waves are created that compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly created in this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a giant water vapor cloud containing "140 trillion times more water than all of Earth's oceans combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light-years from Earth. According to the researchers, “this discovery shows that water has been ubiquitous in the universe for almost its entire existence.” Water has been discovered in interstellar clouds in the Milky Way. Water probably exists in abundance in other galaxies as well, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of formation and evolution of the Solar System and of other star systems, most other planetary systems are likely to have similar compositions. Steam
Water exists as vapor in:

Sun's atmosphere: in detectable trace amounts
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4% and large amounts of water in Mercury's exosphere
Venus' atmosphere: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% of the entire atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
Moon's atmosphere: in small amounts
Mars' atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% – ice only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere – ice only; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
Atmosphere of Uranus – below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere – found in deeper layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: includes the atmospheres of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b and WASP-19b. Stellar atmospheres: are not limited to cooler stars and have even been detected in hot giant stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circular disk: includes the disks of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri as well as TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
Liquid water is present on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also sometimes present in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water is present in Saturn's moons Enceladus, in the form of a 10 km thick ocean about 30–40 km below the surface of Enceladus's south pole, and Titan, in the form of a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean of liquid water. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between ice and high-pressure rocks. ice water
Water exists as ice on:

 Mars: under the topsoil and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly ice sheets on Earth and in craters and volcanic rocks on the Moon. NASA reported the detection of water molecules by the NASA Lunar Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: The surface of Europa and also the surfaces of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planet's ring system and on the surfaces and mantles of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related objects of the Kuiper belt and Oort cloud
And also likely present on:

Pole of mercury
Tethys

Strange form
Water and other volatiles may comprise much of the internal structure of Uranus and Neptune, and water in deeper layers may take the form of ionic water in which the molecules decompose into a mixture of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and even deeper, superionic water in which the oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely in the oxygen lattice. Habitability of water and planet
The existence of water in liquid form and to a lesser extent in gas and solid form on Earth is important to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were a little closer or farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million km), then the conditions that would allow three forms to exist simultaneously would be much less likely to exist. The size of the Earth also plays an important role: its gravity allows it to retain its atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have extremely thin or no atmospheres. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain relatively constant surface temperatures when present in regular amounts. The state of water on a planet depends on the surrounding pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If a planet is large enough, the water on it can remain solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure exerted by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and crisis
Water politics is politics influenced by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource worldwide and a key factor in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damages biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost every part of the world, but about one billion people still lack access to clean water and more than 2.5 billion people do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025, more than half of the world's population will face water vulnerability. A report published in November 2009 found that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by as much as 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to safe water since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is calculated to have increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000 and 84% in 2004. A 2006 United Nations report declared that "there is enough water for everyone", but Water access is hindered by poor management and corruption. Additionally, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted as effectively by water sector donors as they have been in the education and health sectors, potentially leaving many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments not empowered to take action. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Review of Water Management in Agriculture cited poor governance as a reason for some forms of water scarcity. Water governance is the set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water governance is essentially about knowing which processes work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. People sometimes make the mistake of trying to apply the 'blueprints' that work in developed countries to the places and contexts of the developing world. The Mekong River is an example; an International Water Management Institute review of policies in six countries that source water from the Mekong found that cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely carried out in a clear and transparent manner. They also discovered that Cambodia's draft water law is much more complicated than it needs to be. In 2004, the British charity WaterAid reported that every 15 seconds a child dies from easily preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the United Nations World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision-makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion people) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity is considered endemic due to overconsumption and pollution. The report says 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or severe water stress. However, over the past 40 years, water consumption has increased about 1% per year and is expected to increase at a similar rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased 2.5-fold. The damage of these floods from 2000 to 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million USD. Organizations involved in water conservation include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute carries out projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. The water-related conventions are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations declared that humanity has entered an era of "water bankruptcy" because more than 50% of large lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries without guaranteed water sources, 4 billion people experience water scarcity for at least one month each year, and drought costs $307 billion each year. It calls for policies that match reality rather than past norms. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Faiths that incorporate ritual bathing (cleansing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or immersion or pouring) of a person into water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, ritual bathing in purified water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body with clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in most rituals to cleanse a person or an area (e.g., in misogi rituals). In Christianity, holy water is water that has been sanctified by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places, and objects, or as a means to ward off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is respected as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water one of the four classical elements (along with fire, earth and air) and viewed it as the ylem, or fundamental substance of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle described as an astronomer and an engineer, theorized that the earth, being denser than water, emerged from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that everything was made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water was an icosahedron – fluid compared to the cubic earth. The theory of the four body fluids that bind water to phlegm is cold and damp. The classical element of water is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular philosophical systems in Asia take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of Dao De Jing says: "The highest excellence is like water. The excellence of water is shown in the fact that it benefits all things and in the fact that it occupies without effort (on the contrary) the low place which is disliked by all. Therefore (its path) is close to (the path of) the Tao" and "There is nothing softer in the world than water, yet to attack things that are hard and strong there is nothing can prevail over it—for there is nothing (very effective) that it can change.” Guan Zi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 further explains the symbolism of water, declaring that "man is water" and attributing the natural qualities of the people of different regions of China to the characteristics of local water resources
“Living water” appears in German and Slavic folk tales as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy tale (“The Water of Life”) and the Russian dichotomy between living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical water that is said to prevent aging. Arts and activities
In Irish writer James Joyce's important modernist novel Ulysses (1922), the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is called the "water hymn". According to Richard E. Madtes, the hymn is not merely a "monotonous series of events," but rather its phrases, like their subject, "rise and fall, swell and swell, gather and burst, until they sink into the peaceful stillness of the conclusion 'the hedge of pestilence, the fading perfume, the stagnant pond in the crescent moon.'" The hymn is considered one of the most notable passages in Ithaca, and according to Literary critic Hugh Kenner, accomplished that. "an unimaginable feat is to put into poetry all the jumbled information that has accumulated in textbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of “eternal, ever-changing life,” and the hymn represents the culmination of the novel's motif. Here is the hymn quoted in full. What does Bloom, who loves water, who stops water, who transports water back to the range, admire in water? Its universality: its democratic equality and its steadfastness to its nature in the search for its own level: its immensity in the ocean according to Mercator's projection: its unplumbed depth in the Sundam trench of the Pacific exceeds 8,000 fathoms: the restlessness of waves and surface particles visiting all points of its coast in turn: the independence of its units: the variation of sea states: its stillness hydrostatic in the calm: its hydrodynamic recoil at rising and falling tides: its subsidence after devastation: its sterility in the circumpolar ice caps, the Arctic and Antarctic: its climatic and commercial importance: its 3-to-1 superiority over the dry land of the globe: its indisputable hegemony extending square mile by square mile over the entire area below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multi-century stability of the arid basin its water: its luteofulvous mat: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all dissolved substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals: the slow erosion of peninsulas and promontories that tend downward: alluvial deposits: its weight, volume, and density: its stability in lagoons and highlands: its gradation in hot, temperate, and glacial zones: its vehicular ramifications in streams containing continental lakes and oceanic rivers confluence with their tributaries and transoceanic currents: gulf stream, north and south equatorial currents: its robustness in marine earthquakes, fountains, artesian wells, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshwater, spates, aquifers, river basins, water divides, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, eddies, floods, deluges, cloud bursts: its vast circumferential non-quadratic curve: its secrecy in streams and latent moisture, detected by hygrometers or hygrometers and illustrated by the well through the hole in the wall at the Ashtown gate, the saturation of the air, the distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, the two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part being oxygen: its medicinal effects: its buoyancy in the Dead Sea water: its persistent penetrating power in trenches, furrows, inadequate dams, leaks on ship: cleansing properties, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing vegetation: its infallibility as a model and exemplar: its transformation into vapor, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, sleet: its power in hard water fountains: its variety in coves and gulfs and gulfs and gulfs and gulfs and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and fjords and minches and estuaries tides and branches of the sea: the solidity of it in glaciers, icebergs, icebergs: its docility in working with hydraulic mills, turbines, generators, power plants, bleachers, tanneries, ship crushers: its utility in canals, rivers, if navigable, floating docks and dugouts: its potential comes from exploited tides or water flows falling from one level to another: marine fauna and flora (anacoustic, photophobe) in terms of the number, if not literally, inhabitants of the globe: its ubiquity makes up 90% of the world's human population: the toxicity of the currents in lake swamps, pestilent swamps, fading perfumes, stagnant ponds in the crescent moon. Painter and activist Fredericka Foster curated The Value of Water, at St. John the Divine in New York City, which launched the Church's year-long initiative on our dependence on water. This is the largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, featuring more than 40 artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster founded Think About Water, an ecological collective of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the United Nations, charity WaterAid commissioned 10 visual artists to demonstrate the impact of clean water on people's lives. Mimics Dihydrogen monoxide
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The name has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes intended to mock scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an article about April Fools' Day appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story included concerns about the safety of the substance. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many rappers from Florida as a type of catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Taking things even further, some rappers have written entire songs dedicated to the water in Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water." See more
Notes
References
Works Cited
Read more
External links

World water data page
FAO's comprehensive water database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived January 16, 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal to the World Bank's strategies, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water online
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Ideas, BBC, Video, 3:16 min, 2019
Chemistry of Water Archived June 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Society for the Characteristics of Water and Steam Archived September 27, 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecules That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary