Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a clear, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical. It is the main source of Earth's currents, lakes and oceans. Water is the liquid of all known living things, where it acts as a solvent. Water, being a polar molecule, has strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding that greatly contributes to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known forms of life, although it does not provide dietary energy or organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its universal abundance, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because Earth's temperature and pressure are close to the three zones of water, water on Earth is solid, liquid and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of suspended water droplets and ice, their solid form. When properly separated, crystalline ice can fall in the form of snow. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the Earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Smaller portions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as water vapor, clouds (which include ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water that goes through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff often reaches the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Salt and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, a major source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade of goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by boat across oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in factories and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes as well as cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other recreational activities, such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, skiing, and snowboarding. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *form of suffid (root suffiw); Also connected, with an Indo-European root, with Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from which English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wją. History
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless and slightly green liquid. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is poor at dissolving solids. This allows it to be "the melting pot of life": indeed, water as it is found in nature almost always includes various dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only substance that normally exists as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also in the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter for water are the solid phase, ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), absorption (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to ice) and deposition (vapor to ice). Congestion
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes smaller as it cools between certain temperatures; it's the only known natural substance that does that when it's liquid. In addition, it is unusual in that it shrinks significantly as it freezes, although it is unusual in this respect. At 1 atm of pressure, it reaches its maximum of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98°C (39.16°F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (become less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and freezes, the water expands by about 9%, reaching a maximum of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can bring high pressure, burst pipes and cracked rocks. As a solid, it exhibits normal contractile behavior and becomes more dense as it cools. These unusual thermal structures have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms at the surface, floating in liquid water. This ice protects the water below, allowing it to freeze. Without this protection, most aquatic life in the lakes would die in the winter. Additionally, this negative behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that transports heat to the planet's oceans. A magnet
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the connection is weak, even superconducting magnets can achieve a visible connection. Phase transitions
At one atmosphere (atm) pressure, ice melts or water freezes (solids) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor at its surface by evaporation (evaporation of all liquids is known as boiling). Degradation and repositioning occurs at the surface. For example, frost is deposited on a cold surface while snowflakes form by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice nucleus. In the freeze-drying process, food is frozen and then kept at low pressure so that the ice on its surface melts. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\playing style {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

there 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 it is the latent heat of melting. For most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the heat of fusion increases with pressure. However, because the ice is under water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under enough ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain liquid at high temperatures in the deep ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hot springs, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at high altitude takes longer than cooking at sea level. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by four to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three important points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The third point has a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); is the lowest pressure at which liquid water can exist. Until 2019, a triple point was used to describe the Kelvin temperature scale. The liquid/vapor phase curve ends at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as an important point. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the superfluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between pressures such as gas and liquid; its properties (which are very different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including most organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of processes including high temperature electrochemistry and an ecologically benign solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Phases of ice and water
The most common type of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with hexagonal symmetry. One with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been confirmed experimentally and many more have been predicted theoretically. The eighteenth type of ice, XVIII ice, face-centered-cubic, superionic ice phase, was found when a drop of water is subjected to pressure waves that increase the pressure of water to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a structure of solid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms move freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical composition of liquid water are poorly understood; other theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Fresh water is often described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have certain senses that can detect the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to have a sense of smell. However, water from common sources (including mineral water) often contains many dissolved substances that can impart different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to detect drinking water in order to avoid water that is too salty or too salty. Color and appearance
Pure water is visibly green due to absorption of light in the c region. 600–800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water set against a clean white background, during the day. The main absorption bands opposite the color are the overtones of the O-H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also works, for example, with a swimming pool when the source of light is sunlight coming from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can change from blue to green due to the presence of solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower overtones of water means that glass cuvettes with shorter path lengths can be used. To observe the main absorption spectrum of water or aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette should be clear at about 3500 cm−1 and not soluble in water; calcium fluoride is another material widely used in cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Fundamental Raman motions can be observed in, for example, a 1 cm cell sample. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than air (1.0), similar to those of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), 1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common types of glass (1.6). The index of refraction of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are close to the two corners of the tetrahedron centered on oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms can form an angle of 109.5 °, but the repulsion between the independent pairs is greater than that between the hydrogen atoms. The length of the O-H bond is about 0.096 nm. Some elements have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen has a higher electronegativity than most other elements, so oxygen atoms are partially negatively charged while hydrogen atoms are partially charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugar and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living things, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interaction between water and the subunits of these biomacromolecules forms protein, DNA base pairing, and other important factors in life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many insoluble materials are also insoluble, including most metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules to each other in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting and boiling points of water are much higher than other similar compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also reported its specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is caused by electrostatics, while the remaining 10% is partially related. These bonds are responsible for the high water surface tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property depends on all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium of 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-, in combination with the solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrical conductivity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the dissolution of small ionic substances such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing electricity through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires an input of more energy than the heat released by the inverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most purposes: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 at normal conditions. Even in oceans 4 km deep, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water suffers only 1.8% loss of volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 standing at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), a property exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental sensing (sonar). Reactivation
Metallic elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, remove hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the flow, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, glaciers is glaciology, inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Programs in ecology and hydrology focus on ecohydrology. The combined mass of water found above, below, and above the planet's surface is called the hydrosphere. The amount of ground water (total water in the world) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, stream, pond, or reservoir. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid and vapor form. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important to many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this ground water affects spray patterns. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important for both climate and chemical processes. Water, and to a lesser but important extent, ice, are also responsible for transporting sediments that occur on land. The deposition of transported sediments forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geological record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, ground water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in a water cycle that includes the following transfer processes:

Evaporation from seas and other bodies of water into the air and the release of land plants and animals into the air. rain, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls on land or sea. the rolling of water from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean returns to it, but the winds carry the water vapor over the land at the same rate as it escapes to the ocean, about 47 Tt per year while the evaporation and movement of land that occurs on the land also contributes another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, averaging 119 Tt per year over land, takes many forms: mostly rain, snow, and hail, with some contributions from fog and dew. It hits him with small droplets that thicken when the water vapor meets the cool soil. Dew usually occurs in the morning when the temperature is at its lowest, just before sunrise and when the temperature of the earth begins to rise. Condensed water in the air can also block sunlight to produce a rainbow. Running water often collects on top of water sheds that flow into rivers. Due to erosion, water runoff shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and flat land for the establishment of human institutions. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually in a low-lying area, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or there is a storm. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when an area experiences a lack of water. This occurs when an area receives consistently below average rainfall due to its topography or location in terms of latitude. Water resources
A water resource is a natural resource of water that can be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water or water for irrigation. Water appears as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the world's total fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in permafrost and permafrost; 30 percent for groundwater; and the remaining 1 percent in lakes, rivers, air and living things. The length of time water remains in storage is highly variable: some aquifers have water stored for thousands of years, but the volume of the lakes can fluctuate at certain times of the year, decreasing during droughts and increasing during wet periods. A large part of the water supply in some regions consists of water taken from water stored in stock, and when withdrawal exceeds recharge, the stock decreases. By one estimate, about 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater extraction, which causes groundwater depletion. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, with smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It freezes at low temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of water in the great oceans varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40 percent, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the ocean. Waves cause changes in the water depth of oceans and estuaries and produce circulating currents known as currents. The change of the tide produced in a certain area is the result of the change of the Moon and the Sun about the Earth and the effects of the rotation of the earth and the bathymetry of the area. A beach that is immersed in high tides and exposed to low tides, the intertidal zone, is an important natural product of tidal waves. Results in life
From a biological point of view, water has many different properties that are very important for the growth of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow reproduction. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important as a solvent in which most of the body's solutes dissolve and as an important part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is the sum of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (using energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starch, triglycerides, and proteins to store fat and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuel for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes would not exist. Water is fundamental to photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split hydrogen from water into oxygen. Before sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form sugar and release oxygen. All living cells use fuel and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water also mediates acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H +, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton receiver such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal environment. Acids have a pH value less than 7 while bases have a value greater than 7. Aquatic life forms
The water on the surface of the earth is full of life. The first life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live only in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and part on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of underwater life. Plankton is usually the main food source of the sea. Aquatic animals need oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have lungs instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to come up from time to time to breathe. Some animals that live on land and in water can absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a wide range of adaptations to survive in oxygen-free water including breathing tubes (see insect and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life evolved from an aquatic habitat, most have little or no knowledge of aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilizations have historically thrived around rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the places that is often called the beginning of civilization, was between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile. The early Indus Valley Civilization (ca. 3300 BCE - ca. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and the rivers that flowed from the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Tiber river in Italy. Large cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong achieved their success in part due to their easy access by water and the expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have flourished for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water was a key factor in population growth. Health and pollution
Water that is fit for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made drinkable by filtration or filtration, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to clean drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is safe for people to swim or bathe in is called by different names other than potable or drinking water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is highly technical and often monitored by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of non-chlorine for bathing water). Bath water can be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also known as municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater are produced worldwide each year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, it is recirculated by the natural hydrologic cycle, but the pressure to access it is caused by the uneven distribution of nature in space and time, the growth of agricultural and industrial economic needs, and the increase in population. Currently, nearly a billion people around the world do not have access to safe and affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the proportion of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals for universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still flows untreated into rivers and streams. About 50 countries, with about one third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of them release more water per year than is recharged by their natural water cycle. This pressure not only affects surface water bodies such as rivers and lakes, but also depletes groundwater resources. Human consumption
Agriculture
Most human water use is in agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of total water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater is withdrawn to be used for irrigation, but most of the "recycled" water (used and not returned to nature) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that use complex water systems to collect, treat, and distribute water, and to remove waste water. But economic growth, population, and climate pressure are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for permanent water resources, leading to the perception of high water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-hungry consumption increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries arise, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to provide food for a growing population. It assessed the current availability of agricultural water around the world and mapped water-scarce areas. It found that one fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in physically scarce areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically water-stressed areas, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient population makes it difficult for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and environmental conditions will cause problems in many parts of the world. In order to avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase production to meet the growing demand for food, while industries and cities find ways to use water efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by overproduction of water products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton - the equivalent of a pair of jeans - requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is used in areas that are already at risk of water scarcity. Massive environmental damage has been caused: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton largely caused the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the total weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundred cubic meters, and the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes however, a reference standard of metal was needed, one thousand times larger, than the kilogram. Work was therefore commissioned to accurately determine the weight of one liter of water. Although the established definition of the gram defined water at 0 °C (32 °F)—the most reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the highest temperature of water density, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, once defined as 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 it is based on Boltzmann's constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, which was originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water contains mainly the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavy isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, the water quality is defined as the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can be anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. The National Academy of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends an intake of 3.7 L (0.98 U.S. gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is absorbed through food or drinks without drinking straight water. Medical literature favors low consumption, usually 1 liter of water for a man, without additional needs due to water loss due to exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary while exercising, which puts them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be fatal. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that increased water intake, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake helps prevent constipation. The original recommendation for drinking water was made in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the U.S. National Research Council. it read: "The average intake for various populations is 1 liter per calorie of food. The latest U.S. National Research Council dietary reference report generally recommended, based on median total water intake from US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 water contains about 19 US gal) of total water in the test. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need additional fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that men drink 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and lactating women should get 3 liters (12 cups), since more fluid is lost during breastfeeding. It is also noted that approximately 20% of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is excreted through sweat and breath. Daily fluid loss can also increase. Common impurities include metals, pesticides, and bleach and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio.Other solvents are acceptable and desirable to improve taste and provide needed electrolytes. The largest source (by volume) of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Bathing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is commonly used in chemistry as a solvent or reactant and rarely as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, it dissolves many ionic compounds, and some polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is not usually used as a solvent reaction, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these structures are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions with water has been observed. Rare waters have recently become the subject of research. Water saturated with excess oxygen burns organic pollutants effectively. Heat exchange
Water and steam are the common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water can be found naturally in a lake or ocean. It is more efficient at transporting heat through the evaporation and condensation of water due to its greater latent heat of vaporization. The disadvantage is that metals commonly found in industries such as iron and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in the closed space between the boiler, steam engine, and condenser), and coolant (used to exchange waste heat from a body of water or be carried to vapor in a cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the most common form of water use. In the nuclear power industry, water can be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down nuclear activity. However other methods are preferred by stopping the reaction and preferring to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire considerations
Water has a high vapor temperature and low reactivity, making it a good firefighting liquid. Water vapor conducts heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving oil and organic solvents because many organic substances float in water and water tends to spread flammable liquids. The use of water in firefighting must also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur when water is used in very hot fires in closed areas, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as metal or hot carbon such as coal, charcoal, or coke graphite, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from fighting the fire but from the water cooling system in the reactor. A steam explosion occurs when the superheated core causes the water to vaporize. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction between the steam and the hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat by reacting with water that a fire hazard can arise. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass produced product that is often transported in paper bags. If these are immersed in water, they can ignite as their contents react with water. Entertainment
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as for exercise and sports. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, kayaking, surfing and diving. In addition, other sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on the ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other flora and fauna in aquariums or ponds for display, pleasure and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, snowboarding, skiing, or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either frozen or crystallized from the snow. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to homes and businesses. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply networks, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old canals. Atmospheric water generators are being developed. Drinking water is often collected from wells, extracted from artificial wells (wells) in the ground, or pumped from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in the right places is a possible way to produce more water, assuming those wells can deliver enough water. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This can include the removal of insoluble matter, soluble matter and harmful bacteria. Popular methods are sand filtration which removes only the insoluble material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation does all three functions. Advanced techniques are available, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of large amounts of seawater is an expensive solution used in coastal arid areas. The distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, tank distribution or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to people in need free of charge. Limiting the use of potable (drinking) water only for human consumption is another way. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve clean water resources. Contaminated water is probably the biggest form of water misuse; to the extent that the polluter restricts other uses of the water, it becomes a waste of resources, regardless of the benefit to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, this does not enter into the standard reporting of market costs, it is considered as an externality for which the market cannot respond. Thus other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private firms are not redistributed to the local population, the victims of this pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in water and can have negative effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and do not decompose. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Contaminated soil runoff mitigation is accomplished through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Business applications
Many industrial processes rely on reacting with chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and remove materials, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical refining, pulping, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling electronics use large amounts of water, require a dedicated water source, and often cause significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is the electricity obtained from electric power. Hydroelectric power from water drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing out of the lake is forced through turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used for water blasting and water jet cutters. High pressure water guns are used for precise cutting. It is very efficient, relatively safe, and environmentally friendly. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saws from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam engines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. The discharge of untreated water from industrial use is pollution. Pollution includes discharged solvents (chemical pollution) and discharged cooling water (thermal pollution). Industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment methods for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI "could endanger global and national water security". Food preparation
Boiling, steaming, and boiling are popular cooking methods that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is used for washing dishes. Water also plays an important role in the field of food science. Solvents such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at the lower temperatures and lower air pressures that occur at higher altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water at low water activity - this is important to know because bacterial growth stops at low levels of water activity. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also the storage and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical ion exchange process. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, and play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also explain that this is a global measure and the factors that affect it determine the amount of water used in cattle production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Natural distribution
In the universe
Most of the water in the universe came from the evolution of stars. Star formation is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When these outflows eventually impact the surrounding gas, shock waves are created that compress and heat the gas. The observed water is rapidly produced from this dense hot gas. On July 22, 2011, a report announced the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion cubic feet more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" about a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water is already common in the universe almost everywhere". Water is found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water may be abundant in some galaxies, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, many other planetary systems may have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

The Sun's atmosphere: in visual currency
Mercury's atmosphere: 3.4%, with a large amount of water in Mercury's exosphere
Spirit of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% above the saturated atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the surface
The Moon's atmosphere: trace amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The wind of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only ices; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (subsurface ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - in the following amounts below 50 bar
Neptune's atmosphere - found in deep layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar space: not limited to cool stars and has also been seen in large hot stars such as Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: including those of more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279 + 5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water is a liquid
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water also occasionally exists in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10-kilometer-thick ocean about 30–40 kilometers below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and on Titan, as a subsurface layer, which may be mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that indicate a liquid ocean beneath the surface. Liquid water may exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a high-pressure intermediate layer of ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and on the poles. The Earth-Moon system: mostly as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the detection of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other associated Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it's likely to exist in:

The poles of Mercury
The Tethys

Unusual forms
Water and other variables probably include most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and water in the deep layers that can be ionic water where the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen oxygen, and deeper as surface water where the oxygen glows, but the hydrogen ion of hydrogen floats freely inside the oxygen. Water and a habitable planet
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were closer or slightly farther from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow these three species to exist at the same time would be much less likely to exist. The size of the soil also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very thin atmospheres or none at all. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a heat buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a steady surface temperature when present in normal amounts. The nature of water on the planet depends on the pressure of the surrounding environment, which is expressed by the gravity of the planet. If the planet is large enough, the water on its surface can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics and complexity
Water politics are politics that are affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource around the world and an important weapon in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to living things. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past two decades in almost all parts of the world, but approximately one billion people still do not have access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have predicted that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be vulnerable to water. The report, released in November 2009, shows that by 2030, in some developing parts of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have gained access to a safe water source since 1990. The number of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. through mismanagement and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the water sector as effectively as they do in education and health, which may leave many donors working in joint projects with recipient governments without the capacity to act. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Review of Agricultural Water Management cite poor management as one of the reasons for other forms of water scarcity. Water governance is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is about knowing which systems work best in a particular physical and socio-economic context. Mistakes are sometimes made by trying to apply 'blueprints' that work in developed countries to developing world areas and situations. The Mekong River is another example; A study by the International Water Management Center of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that thorough and transparent cost-benefit analysis and environmental impact assessment are rarely carried out. They also found that Cambodia's water management law was more complicated than it needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. Urban populations (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or severe water stress. However, in the last 40 years, water consumption has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations responsible for water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Center for Water Management runs projects aimed at using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered a period of "water scarcity" because more than 50% of the great lakes have declined since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries that are not protected by water, 4 billion people experience a lack of water in one month. year. It called for more realistic policies than previous traditions. In culture
Religion
Water is considered cleansing in many religions. Beliefs that involve ablution (toilet) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafarian movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or submersion or tempering) of a person in water is a central Christian sacrament (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, the ritual of bathing in clean water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed in most cases after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless the water is yours (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to purify a person or place (for example, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptizing, blessing people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The Ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles considered water to be one of the four primitive elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the most important element in the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, said that the earth, denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, further believed that all things are made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body is associated with water and phlegm, as they are cold and moist. The classical element of water was one of the five elements in Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as a role-model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest quality is like (that of) water. The superiority of water is seen in its mastery of all things, and in its taking, without striving (on the contrary), the low place that all men do not. Hence (its way) is near (that) of the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, but attacking solid and strong things there is no substitute for the first - because there is nothing (effective) that can be changed in different regions of China to the type of local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm fairy-tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents a related concept of magical water that is said to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not just a "string of truth", rather, its phrases, like their title, "ebb and flow, raise and swell, gather and break, until it subsides into a quiet quiescence of the last 'fens of the plague, gone, the water of the flower has gone, the flower ponds are considered the most "pools of the moon". Ithaca's remarkable passages, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, accomplishes "the impossible task of elevating to poetry all the mass of written information found in schoolbooks." The literary motif of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal, ever-changing life," and the song represents the ending of the motif in the novel. The following is a full excerpt. What in the water does Bloom, the water lover, the water drawer, the water carrier return to the list? The world: its democratic equality and consistency in its nature in seeking its level: its size in the Mercator concept ocean: its unmixed depth in the Sundam channels of the Pacific exceeds 8,00 particles above the surface of the Pacific. Visiting successively all the parts of its coast: the independence of its units: the variability of the sea states: its hydrostatic calmness: the hydrokinetic turgidity in the near waves and the spring tides: its reduction after destruction: its hardness in the rotating icecaps, arctic and arctic and the antarctic above the antarctic 1 its feature above the antarctic: the dry land of the globe: its undisputed hegemony that spreads in square leagues throughout the area below the subequatorial tropic of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its first basin: its luteofulvous bed: its power to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals and the bottom: The alluvial deposits: its weight and volume and pressure: its consistency in the estuaries and highland tarns: its classification of colors in the cool and cool and cold: its movement in the continental lake that contains the rivers and streams of the sea and its tributaries, the streaming of the north and the bottom of the sea Earthquakes, water channels, wells, eruptions, rivers, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, water bodies, water bodies, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, downpours, torrents, torrents: its vast expanse around the earth, revealed by a flat, molten earth. rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and a model in the hole in the wall at the gate Ashtown, air saturation, dew distillation: the simplicity of its construction, two parts of hydrogen and one part of oxygen: its healing power: its stepping in the waters of the Dead Sea, entering the waters of the Dead Sea: pools, leaks on board ships: its properties of purification, quenching thirst and fire, nourishing plants: its imperfection as a paradigm and a paragon: its metamorphoses as steam, fog, cloud, rain, snow, snow, hail: its strength in strong hydrants: its varieties of pipes and guys and gulls and gulls and golfs and islands and sounds and fjords and minches and estuaries and sea arms: its strength in glaciers, icebergs, icebergs: its docility in working hydraulic millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutch of rivers, flooring, navigable, flooring, flooring, navigable buried docks: its power comes from combined waves or water channels falling from level to level: submarine animals and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: its presence covers 90% of the human body: the destruction of its overflowing flowers, fauna, fauna, fauna, fauna, fauna, fauna, fauna, stagnant lakes in the dry moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster has curated The Price of Water, at St. Mary's Cathedral. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think Water, a collection of natural artists who use water as a subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the technically correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The term has been used in a series of hoaxes and jokes mocking scientific illiteracy. It started in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The fake story included safety concerns about the drug. Music
The word "Water" is used by many Florida rappers as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Going even further some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to the waters of Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". See also
Notes
References
Activities mentioned
Read more
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Information Database, AQUASTAT
Chronology of the Water Crisis: The Water Crisis Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of Water Sciences (USGS)
Portal of the World Bank's strategy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived 24 March 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Hydrology and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the most amazing things in the universe", Views, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived June 19, 2020, at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, 2020 PBS documentary