Water is a neutral compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, harmless, and colorless chemical. It is the main category of streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known minerals, in which it acts as oil. Water, being a polar molecule, possesses strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding which is a great contributor to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential for all known forms of life, although it does not provide food energy or organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all organisms, its chemical stability, its universal abundance, and its strong polarity relative to its small molecular size, water is often referred to as the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are nearly three times that of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds have suspended raindrops and snow, strong conditions. When finely divided, ice crystals can appear in the form of ice. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the earth's surface, with seas and oceans making up the majority of the volume of water (about 96.5%). Smaller proportions of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the glaciers and ice caps of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the atmosphere as vapor, clouds (which consist of ice and water suspended in the air), and precipitation (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water transport process of evaporation, transpiration (evapotranspiration), evaporation, precipitation, and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70% of fresh water is used by humans for agriculture. Fishing in salt and fresh waters has been, and continues to be, an important source of food for many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Much of the long-distance trade of commodities (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured goods) is carried by ships through oceans, rivers, lakes, and streams. Large quantities of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in factories and homes. Water is the best material for many substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also central to many sports and other types of sports, such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, ice skating, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (also derived from Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European * root 'suffixedor'. Likewise, through Indo-European roots, including Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), from English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian vệ. Story
On Earth
Properties
Water (H2O) is a large inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, colorless liquid with a hint of blue. The simplest hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal cream" for its ability to dissolve more substances than other liquids, although it is not good at dissolving non-polar substances. This allows it to be a "solution of life": indeed, water as found in nature almost always contains many dissolved substances, and special steps are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only common substance to exist as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal Earth conditions. States
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; it is also the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of liquid matter are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gaseous phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), vaporization (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), sublimation (ice to vapor) and storage (vapor to ice). weight
Water is one of the few common substances that expands and becomes less dense as it cools within certain temperature ranges; it is the only naturally occurring substance that does so during water. In addition, it is unusual because it becomes less dense as it freezes, although it is not unique in that respect. At 1 atm pressure, it reaches a maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above the freezing point of 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (becomes less dense) until it reaches the freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and freezes, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause great pressure, burst pipes and broken rocks. As a solid, it exhibits a constant tendency to contract and become more dense as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, water at 4 °C (39 °F) sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on top, floating on liquid water. This ice insulates the water below, preventing it from freezing. Without this protection, most of the aquatic organisms living in the lakes will die during the winter. Additionally, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation which distributes heat around the oceans. Magnetism
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with strong magnets you can have a noticeable interaction. Level changes
At one atmospheric pressure (atm), ice melts or water freezes (freezes) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vapors at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the surface, water can change to air at its surface by evaporation (the air across the water is known as heat). Sublimation and sublimation also occur on layers. For example, frost is deposited on cold surfaces while snow is formed by deposition on an aerosol particle or ice core. In the process of freeze-drying, food is frozen and then stored under low pressure so that the ice on its surface is high. The melting and boiling points depend on the pressure. A good approximation for the rate of change of melting temperature with pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relation:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  -
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}
  

where 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\style v_{\text{L}}}
  
 and 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\style v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, and 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\word{f}}}
  
 is the molar latent heat of melting. In most substances, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature is lower. In glaciers, melting pressure can occur under thick enough layers of ice, causing underground lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron equation also applies to the boiling point, but with the liquid/gas transition, the vapor phase has a much lower density than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can exist in a liquid state at high temperatures in the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the warmest point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point decreases by 1 °C every 274 meters. High altitude boiling takes longer than sea level boiling. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by a quarter to achieve the desired result. Alternatively, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by raising the temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Triple and critical point
On the pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are corners that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a point called the triple point, where all three levels can move together. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure at which water can exist. Until 2019, three points were used to define the Kelvin temperature. The liquid/vapor phase is completed at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as the critical point. At higher temperatures and pressures water and vapor levels form a continuous phase called a supercritical fluid. It can be compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from those of ambient water) are sensitive to density. For example, for good pressures and temperatures it can mix freely with non-polar compounds, including many organic compounds. This makes it useful in many applications including high-temperature electrochemistry and as a hazardous mineral or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the Earth's mantle, it acts as fuel during mineral formation, dissolution and deposition. Levels of ice and water
The normal form of ice on Earth's surface is Ih ice, a phase that forms crystals with a hexagonal symmetry. Another characteristic of ice, Ic ice, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. By 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and many more are scientifically predicted. The eighteenth form of ice, ice XVIII, a face-centered, superionic ice layer, was discovered when a droplet of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water pressure to millions of atmospheres and its temperature to thousands of degrees, resulting in a system of rigid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flow freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The details of the chemical nature of water are not well understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two water states. Taste and smell
White water is often described as tasteless and harmless, although humans have specific sensors that can feel the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to be able to smell it. However, water from ordinary sources (including mineral water) often has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and smells. Humans and other animals have senses that allow them to assess how the water can be made to avoid salty or bad water. Color and appearance
Pure water is transparent blue due to absorption of light in the c region. 600-800 nm. Color can be easily observed in a glass of tap water placed on a white base, in daylight. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are overtones of the O–H stretching vibrations. The apparent intensity of the color increases with the depth of the water column, following Beer's law. This also applies, for example, with a swimming pool when the light source is sunlight that shines from the white tiles of the pool. In nature, the color can also change from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the greater intensity of the lower layers of water means that glass lenses with a shorter path-length can be used. To observe the basic absorption stability of water or of an aqueous solution in the region around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent around 3500 cm-1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is a material that is in common use for cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Active Raman fundamental vibrations can be observed with, for example, a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. In fact no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) of depth. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to alkanes and ethanol, but lower than those of glycerol (1.473), benzene (1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common glass types to 1.6.4. The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms are located near the two corners of the tetrahedron that face the oxygen. At the other two corners are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In a perfect tetrahedron, the atoms form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The O-H bond length is about 0.096 nm. Other substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative charge while the hydrogen atoms are partially positively charged. Together with the correct structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving many salts and hydrophilic organic substances such as sugars and simple alcohols such as ethanol. Water also releases many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide – the latter giving the fizz of carbonated drinks, sparkling wines and beers. In addition, many substances in living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. The interactions between water and parts of these biomacromolecules shape protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other phenomena important to life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, insoluble in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including many metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form up to four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times as strong as the Van der Waals force that attracts molecules to each other in most liquids. This is why the melting points and liquid points are higher than those of other analogous compounds like hydrogen sulfide. They also reported higher specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These properties make water more effective in balancing Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are around 23 kJ/mol (compared to the covalent O-H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, we estimate that 90% is dedicated to electrolytes, while the remaining 10% is partially mixed. These bonds are the cause of the high surface tension of water and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a narrow tube against the force of gravity. This property is trusted by all vascular plants, such as trees. Self-esteem
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH-, in combination with a solution of the resulting hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electricity and electrolysis
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the release of small amounts of ionic material such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into the elements hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released by the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Machine properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for most reasons: its compressibility ranges from 4.4 to 5.1 × 10−10 Pa-1 in ordinary conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, water suffers only 1.8% decrease in volume. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the velocity of water is between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on the temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with low attenuation, even at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km for 1 kHz), a property that cetaceans and humans have used for communication and environmental awareness (sonar). Activity
Metallic elements which are more electronegative than hydrogen, particularly the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the basic earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, reacts with steam to create carbon monoxide and hydrogen. On Earth
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the Earth. The study of water distribution is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Ecosystems with hydrology are the focus of ecology. The total amount of water found on, under, and on Earth's surface is called the hydrosphere. The Earth's approximate water volume (total global water supply) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in bodies of water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, pond, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in aquifers. Water is important in many biological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this ground water affects the processes of faulting. Water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces gases in subduction zones. On Earth's surface, water is important in both chemical and physical weather processes. Water, and to a lesser but still important extent, ice, is also responsible for a large amount of sediment transport that occurs on land. Deposits of sediment are many types of sedimentary rocks, which are the geologic record of Earth's history. Water circulation
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and plants. Water moves continuously through each of these areas in a waterway that has the following movement patterns:

evaporation from oceans and other waters into the air and transport from land plants and animals into the air. precipitation, from water vapor condensing from the air and falling to the ground or ocean. the flow of water from the land usually reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found mostly in the ocean returns to it, but the winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as the flow into the ocean, about 47 Tt per year while evaporation and transpiration occurring in the masses also contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, about 119 Tt per year on land, comes in various forms: regular rain, snow and ice, with some addition from fog and dew. Dew is small droplets of water that condense when a high density of water vapor meets a cold surface. Dew usually occurs in the morning when temperatures are low, just before sunrise and when the surface temperature begins to increase. Water freezing in the air can also reflect sunlight to produce a rainbow. Water flow usually collects on streams that flow into rivers. Through erosion, the stream shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas which provide rich soil and level land for the establishment of population centers. Flooding occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered and occurs when a river overflows its banks or when a hurricane occurs. On the other hand, a drought is a prolonged period of months or years when a region experiences a shortage in its water supply. This occurs when an area receives consistently below average precipitation either because of its topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water springs
Water sources are natural sources of water that can be useful to humans, for example as a source of drinking water supply or irrigation water. Water occurs as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and ice and snow. Of the total volume of the world's fresh water, an estimated 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent snow cover; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining fraction in lakes, rivers, air, and biota. The length of time that water is in storage is highly variable: some aquifers have water stored for thousands of years, but lake levels can change on a seasonal basis, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet ones. A substantial part of the water supply for some areas is water extracted from the water stored in the markets, and when the withdrawals exceed the capacity, the stocks decrease. By some estimates, about 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from unsustainable groundwater withdrawals, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and tides
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, with small amounts of other substances. The physical properties of sea water differ from fresh water in some important ways. It freezes at low temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching a maximum density at temperatures above freezing. Salinity in the oceans varies from about 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the oceans. Floods cause changes in the depth of ocean and estuarine water bodies and produce moving currents known as tidal currents. The flux change produced at a given location is the result of the changing positions of the Moon and Sun relative to the Earth together with the effects of the Earth's rotation and local tide. Coastal seawater that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the central region, is an important ecological product of ocean currents. Effects on life
From a biological point of view, water has many specific properties that are essential for the survival of life. It does this by allowing organic compounds to react in ways that ultimately allow it to. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an essential part of many metabolic processes within the body. Metabolism is a combination of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from the materials (through energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to form larger materials (for example, starches, triglycerides, and proteins for the storage of oils and information). In catabolism, water is used to break down bonds to make smaller molecules (for example, glucose, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used for fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, specific production processes cannot exist. Water is the basis for both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water's hydrogen from oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen is combined with CO2 (obtained from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to obtain solar energy and reform water and CO2 in the process (cell respiration). Water is also central to acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be neutralized by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in the ideal state. Acids have pH values ​​less than 7 while bases have values ​​greater than 7. Aquatic life forms. The surface water is full of life. The first life forms appeared in water; Almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many types of marine animals, such as whales and dolphins. Some animals, such as amphibians, spend parts of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis for some underwater ecosystems. Plankton are generally the base of the marine food chain. Aquatic vertebrates must obtain oxygen to survive, and they do so in a variety of ways. Fish have gills instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Animals that live in water, such as fish, whales, otters, and seals need to come out periodically to breathe air. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show many adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated waters with breathing tubes (see worm and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, as invertebrate life exists in aquatic habitats, most have little or no specialization for aquatic respiration. Effects on human civilization
Civilization has historically flourished around rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called cradles of civilization, is between the important rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient society of the Egyptians was completely dependent on the Nile. Early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE – c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and streams flowing out of the Himalayas. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Great cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to easy access by water and the expansion of trade. Islands with safe harbors, like Singapore, have grown for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is more scarce, access to clean drinking water is an important factor in human development. Health and pollution
Water suitable for human consumption is called potable water or potable water. Non-potable water can be purified by filtration or distillation, or by many other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to humans when used for swimming or bathing is called by different names other than potable water or potable water, and is sometimes called safe water, or "safe for washing". Chlorine is a skin and skin irritant used to make water safe for swimming or drinking. Its use is highly technical and is constantly monitored by government regulations (which is 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm of unreacted chlorine for bathing water). Water for bathing can be treated in a satisfactory microbiological condition by using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (most commonly, municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, which means that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water annually. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of sewage are produced worldwide each year. Water is a renewable resource, recirculated by the natural hydrologic system, but the pressures on its access are the result of the uneven distribution of the body in space and time, the economic demands of development through agriculture and industry, and the increasing population. Currently, almost a billion people around the world do not have access to clean water, and no longer have money. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals for water to halve by 2015 the proportion of the world's population without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal is uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of achieving universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths every year are caused by water-borne diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that safe water could prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater is not treated in local rivers and streams. Some 50 countries, with roughly a third of the world's population, still suffer from medium or high water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water annually than is absorbed by their natural water cycles. The stress not only affects fresh water bodies like rivers and lakes, but also damages domestic water sources. Human uses
Agriculture
The most important human use of water is for agriculture, including irrigated agriculture, which accounts for about 80 to 90 percent of total human water use. In the United States, 42% of freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the water that is "wasted" (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to fresh water is always allowed, especially in developed countries that have built advanced water systems for collecting, purifying, and delivering water, and removing wastewater. But economic growth, environmental, and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increasing competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of peak water. As populations and economies continue to grow, water-thirsty livestock consumption increases, and new demands arise for fossil fuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges are likely. An assessment of water management in agriculture was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to see if the world has enough water to provide food for its growing population. It examines the current availability of water for agriculture on a global scale and maps the conditions that suffer from water scarcity. It found that a fifth of the world's people, more than 1.2 billion, live in areas of physical water scarcity, where there is not enough water to meet all demands. Another 1.6 billion people live in areas experiencing economic water scarcity, where lack of investment in water or human incapacity makes it impossible for authorities to satisfy demand for water. The report found that it will be possible to produce the food we need in the future, but continuing today's industrial and environmental trends will lead to conflict in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to try to increase production to meet the growing demands for food, while companies and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. While cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is consumed in areas that are at risk of water scarcity. Significant environmental damages have been caused: for example, the diversion of water by the former Soviet Union from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers to produce cotton was most important for the loss of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France to be equal to "the absolute weight of a volume of pure water equal to a cube of one hundredth of a meter, and at the temperature of melting ice". For practical purposes though, a reference standard of silver is needed, a thousand times more abundant, the kilo. Therefore, we are tasked with determining how much a liter of water is. Despite the fact that the intended definition of the said gram is 0 °C (32 °F) - a temperature that can be adjusted a lot - scientists chose to reset the standard and to make their measurements at the temperature of the highest density of water, which was measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature scale of the SI system is based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 is based on the Boltzmann constant instead. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same addition as the Celsius scale, which is defined primarily according to the boiling point (set to 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set to 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water consists mainly of the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the heavier isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes tends to have less heavy isotopes than sea water. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water specification. For drinking
The human body is, on average, 50–60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although individuals can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The US National Academies of Sciences, Technology, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 liters (0.98 US gallons) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 US gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the activity level, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is ingested through foods or beverages other than drinking water directly. The medical literature favors a low consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, without additional requirements due to water loss from exercise or hot weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary during exercise, putting them at risk of dehydration (hyperhydration), which can be fatal. The popular belief that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" seems to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that increased water intake, even up to 500 ml (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, is associated with weight loss. Adequate fluid intake is helpful in preventing constipation. The original recommendation for water intake in 1945 by the Food and Nutrition Board of the US National Research Council read: "The normal limit for most people is 1 milliliter for each calorie of food. Most of this quantity is found in prepared foods. ” The latest dietary reference intake report by the US National Research Council generally recommended, based on the median intake from the US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 US gal) of total water for women, which is not close in the diet of total water in 9%. In particular, pregnant women and Breastfeeding women need extra fluids to stay hydrated. The US Food and Drug Administration recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); Pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal). Breast should take 3 liters, because a large amount of water is lost during treatment. Also, about 20% of water intake comes from drinking water and drinks (caffeinated). Water is excreted from the body in many forms, through sweating, and through the exhalation of water vapor in the breath The water may contain some impurities such as copper and lead, and harmful bacteria such as Campylobacter and Vibrio Baikal in Siberia
Moving
Chemical uses
Water is used extensively in chemical reactions as a fuel or reactant and less often as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, dissolving many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and water-related compounds. In organic reactions, it is not often used as a reactive solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of Diels-Alder reactions by water has been observed. Supercritical fluid has been the subject of recent research. Supercritical water full of oxygen burns organic waste very well. Heat exchange
Water and steam are common fluids used for heat exchange, due to its availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Fresh water can even come naturally from a lake or sea. It is especially effective to transfer heat through vaporization and condensation of water because of its great latent heat of vaporization. One disadvantage is that common metals found in industries such as iron and copper are oxidized faster by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in a closed loop between the boiler, turbine, and condenser), and cooling (used to transfer waste heat to the body of water or transferred by evaporation in the cooling tower). In the United States, cooling power plants are the largest user of water. In a nuclear power plant, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In many nuclear reactors, water is both a coolant and a moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing the water from the reactor also causes a nuclear reaction. However other methods are in favor of stopping the reaction and prefer to keep the nuclear base with water to ensure adequate cooling. Fire is imagined
Water has a high heat of vaporization and is relatively inert, which makes it a good fire extinguishing liquid. The evaporation of water removes heat from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving fuels and organic materials because many organic materials float on the water and water tends to ignite the burning water. The use of water in fire fighting should also take into account the risks of a steam explosion, which can occur when water is used on very hot fires in confined spaces, and of a hydrogen explosion, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or graphite coke, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of such explosions was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water in this case did not come from fire fighting but from its own water cooling system. A gas explosion occurs when the superheat of the core causes water to turn into steam. A hydrogen explosion may have occurred as a result of the reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, produce so much heat in contact with water that a fire hazard can develop. Quicklime acid oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced substance that is often packaged in paper bags. If they are submerged, they may burn as their contents absorb water. Sports
People use water for many cosmetic purposes, as well as anti-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory. Some of these include swimming, water skiing, boating, surfing and diving. In addition, some sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Pools, beaches and water parks are popular places for people to go on vacation and enjoy recreation. Many find the sound and appearance of flowing water to be calming, and fountains and other flowing water features are popular decorations. Some keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, enjoyment, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, sledding, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be at a low temperature either as ice or crystallized into snow. Industrial water
The water company provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to homes and businesses. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting wells, water supply networks, and clean water facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes and old water systems. Our atmospheric water generators are in development. They usually collect drinking water in springs, which emerge from wells in the ground, or draw water from lakes and rivers. Building more wells in adequate places is a possible way to get more water, assuming that aquifers can provide adequate flow. Other sources of water include rainwater harvesting. Water may require purification for human consumption. This can involve the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful microbes. Popular methods are filtration with sand which removes only undissolved materials, while chlorination and heating kill harmful microbes. Distillation does all three functions. There are more advanced technologies, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of abundant seawater is a more expensive solution used in arid coastal climates. Drinking water distribution is done through municipal water systems, tanker delivery or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy at no cost. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water only for human consumption is another option. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is used extensively for flushing toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water sources. Wastewater may be the single largest waste of water; to the extent that pollution reduces other uses of water, it will lead to the destruction of those resources, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. Like other types of pollution, this does not enter the standard calculation of market prices, conceived as externalities which the market cannot account for. So other people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not distributed to local residents, the victims of this pollution. Pharmaceuticals consumed by humans often end up in waterways and can have adverse effects on aquatic life if they accumulate and are not biodegradable. Municipal and industrial wastewater is normally treated in wastewater treatment plants. The pollution of the polluted surface is addressed by various prevention and treatment strategies. Industrial equipment
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, suspending solids in water slurries or using water to dissolve and extract substances, or to wash products or machinery. Processes such as mining, chemical pulping, pulp bleaching, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling of energy equipment use large amounts of water, requiring a dedicated water source, and often causing significant water pollution. Water is used in energy. Hydroelectricity is electricity obtained from the power of water. Hydroelectric power comes from water driving a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable energy source. The power is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing out of the lake is powered by turbines that turn generators. Pressurized water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting. High pressure water guns are used for the actual cutting. It works well, is safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in the cooling of the engine to prevent overheating, or prevent the blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical fuel. Discharge of untreated water from industrial uses is polluting. Pollution includes dissolved solutes (chemical pollution) and dissolved water (thermal pollution). The industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of cleaning techniques both in water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially artificial intelligence uses a large amount of water, so the expansion of AI can "threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, roasting, and simmering are popular cooking methods that often require soaking food in liquid or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing. Water also plays many important roles within the field of nutritional science. Solutes such as salts and sugars found in water affect the properties of water. The boiling and freezing points of water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water flows at low temperatures with low air pressure that occurs at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kg raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); Similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers water's freezing point. Solutes in water also affect water activity affecting many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be described as a ratio of the vapor pressure of water in a solution to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water have low water activity—this is important to know because most bacteria thrive at low levels of water activity. Not only does microbial growth affect food safety, but also the preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated by using a chemical ion exchange system. It can dramatically affect the quality of a product, as well as play a role in hygiene. Water hardness is a parameter based on the concentration of calcium carbonate in the water. Water is classified as soft if it has less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15,000 liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also make it clear that this is a global combination and circumstantial factors determine the amount of water used in meat production. Drug use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribution in nature
In the world
Most of the world's water is produced as a result of star formation. The formation of stars comes with a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When the ejected material finally impacts the surrounding gas, the shock waves created compress and heat the gas. The observed liquid is rapidly produced in this hot dense gas. On 22 July 2011, a report described the discovery of a gigantic cloud of water vapor containing "140 trillion times more than all the oceans of Earth combined" around a quasar located 12 billion light years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the discovery shows that water has been prevalent in the universe for its entire life." Water has been found in the interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is likely abundant in other galaxies, too, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and other star systems, most other planetary systems may have similar elements. Night water
Water is found as vapor in:

The world of the Sun: in the observed values
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and most of water in Mercury's exosphere
Planet Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% at the top
The surface of the Moon: has trace amounts
The surface of Mars: 0.03%
The planet of Ceres
Atmosphere of Jupiter: 0.0004% - contains only ice; and of his moon Europa
The world of Saturn - has only ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (submarine)
Wind of Uranus - has values below 50 trees
Neptune's atmosphere - found at deeper levels
Solar flares: including HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Starscapes: not limited to cold stars and even seen in large hot stars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: include more than half of T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Liquid water
There is liquid water on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water is also occasionally found in small amounts on Mars. Scientists believe that liquid water exists in the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10 km thick ocean approximately 30 – 40 km below the south polar surface of Enceladus, and Titan, as the subsurface, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has atmospheric characteristics that suggest an underground water surface. Liquid water may also exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Ice water
Water comes as ice on:

 Mars: under the regolith and in the poles. Earth–Moon system: primarily as ice sheets on Earth and in lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water bodies by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper aboard the Indian Space Research Organization's Chandrayaan-1 spacecraft in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa and Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the ring system and on the surface and mantle of Titan and Enceladus
Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it is also possible on:

The poles of Mercury
Tethys

Great forms
Water and other changes can be found in many of the internal parts of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deep layers can be in the form of ionic water in which the molecules break down into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deeper still as superionic water in which the oxygen crystals, but the ions float freely between the hydrogen oxygen. Water and habitat
The existence of liquid water, and to an extent gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Our planet is in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it is a little closer or far from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 kilometers), the conditions that make three forms exist at the same time will be much less likely to be found. The size of the soil also plays a role: its strength allows it to hold air, including air moisture. Small planets like Mars have very thin or no regions. Water and other gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (the greenhouse effect) which helps maintain a relatively constant surface temperature when it is at normal temperatures. The state of water on the planet depends on the atmospheric pressure, which is determined by the force of the planet. If a planet is large enough, the water on it can be solid even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as observed on the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and crisis
Water politics is politics affected by water and water resources. Water, especially fresh water, is a strategic resource all over the world and an important factor in many political conflicts. It causes health effects and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the years in all parts of the world, but nearly one billion people still do not have access to safe water and over 2.5 billion do not have access to adequate sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will face water scarcity. A report, published in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developed regions of the world, water demand will exceed supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The proportion of people in developing countries with access to safe water is estimated to have improved from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. A 2006 is access to water for everyone but the United Nations is access to water for everyone. hindered by injustice and corruption. In addition, international initiatives to improve the efficiency of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been adopted by donors in the watershed as effectively as they have in education and health, which can leave many donors working on overlapping projects and recipient governments without the ability to act. The authors of the 2007 Empirical Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture point to poor management as a reason for some types of water shortages. Water management is a system of formal and informal procedures by which decisions related to water management are made. Good water management is primarily about knowing what practices work best in the physical and economic environment. We have sometimes made mistakes by trying to apply 'analogs' that work in the developed world to developing world situations and regions. The Mekong River is an example; A review by the International Water Management Institute of policies in six countries that depend on the Mekong River for water found that full and transparent cost analyzes and environmental impact assessments are rarely done. They also discovered that Cambodia's water laws are more complicated than they should be. In 2004, the charity WaterAid in the UK reported that one child died in 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, which are often linked to a lack of adequate sanitation. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by UNESCO's World Water Assessment Program, has provided decision makers with tools for developing sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that two billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safely managed sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water scarcity by 2050. Water scarcity has been described as terminal, due to misuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or significant water stress. However, in the past 40 years, water consumption has increased by around 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in northern latitudes has increased by 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 is 100,000 deaths and $650 million. Organizations involved in water security include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute conducts projects with the aim of using effective water management to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on March 22 and World Oceans Day on June 8. In 2026, the United Nations says that people have entered a period of "water scarcity" because more than 50% of the great lakes have been built since the 1990s, 35% of the wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's population lives in countries that do not have water security, 4 billion people experience less than $ 3 per city drought per month 3 billion. year. It calls for policies that fit reality rather than preconceived notions. In culture
Religion
Water is considered a purifier in most religions. Beliefs that incorporate the process of washing (ablution) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, the Rastafari movement, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. Immersion (or aspersion or immersion) of a person in water is the central Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). Additionally, a ritual bath in holy water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can be performed several times after washing certain parts of the body using holy water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost all rituals to wash a person or an area (for example, in the ritual of misogi). In Christianity, holy water is water that the priest has made holy for the purpose of baptism, blessing people, places, and things, or as a way to reject evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Knowledge
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four eternal elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and considered it the ylem, or element of the universe. Thales, described by Aristotle as an astronomer and engineer, believed that the earth, which is deeper than water, came out of water. Thales, a monist, further believed that everything was made from water. Plato believed that water was shaped like an icosahedron - flowing easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The knowledge of the four humors associated with water includes phlegm, as it is cold and wet. The natural water element is also one of the five elements in traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian scientific systems take water as a model. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest quality is like (that of) water. The quality of water appears to be beneficial to everything, and in receiving it, without striving (to the contrary), the lowest evil that everyone hates. Therefore (its way) is close (to) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, yet for the attack of things that are firm and strong nothing can precede it - for nothing (useful) can be changed." Guanzi is "Shui di" 水地 is "Shui di" 水地 is the element of water and is the sign of water that speaks more. the natural abilities of the people of the Chinese regions to the behavior of the local water resources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Consider the Grimm fairy tale ("Water of life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical waters that are said to prevent aging. Art and creativity
In the important modernist novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish writer James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water song". According to Richard E. Madtes, the song is not danced a "monotonous sea of facts", instead, its words, as their subject, "ebb and flow, heave and swell, collect and break, until they subside into the calm quiescence of the concluding 'pestilential fens, faded flowerwater, stagnant lake in the one who is tired bath-drinking is considered the most hymmarks. Ithaca, and according to critics Hugh Kenner's novel, achieved "the impossible feat of elevating into poetry all the piles of verse that have accumulated in school books." The literary word of water represents the novel's theme of "eternal life, eternal life," and the song of praise represents the conclusion of the novel's theme. The following is the song in full. What is in the water in Bloom, water lover, water drawer, water dispenser returning to where it is returning to where, beautiful? His world: his democratic balance and integrity to his nature in finding his own level: his greatness in the sea of Mercator's projection: his unfathomable profundity in the Sundam trench of the Pacific beyond 8,000 of the surface indifference of his visit. point of its seaboard: the freedom of its units: the changes of the state of the sea: its hydrostatic quiescence in calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity in neap and spring tides: its subsidence after destruction: its sterility in the circumpolar icecaps, arctic and antarctic: its climate and currency: its preponderance of the globe. hegemony that extends in square leagues over all the area below the eastern latitude of Capricorn: the multisecular stability of its main basin: its luteofulvous bed: its ability to dissolve and hold in solution all the soluble substances with millions of tons of the most precious metals: the slow erosions of the peninsula and below: its heavy weights and downward volumes: its entire volume imperturbability in lagoons and Highland tarns: its gradation of colors in torrid and temperate and frigid areas: its car ramifications are continental lakes that are in the stream and confluent oceanflowing rivers with their tributaries and transoceanic streams: gulfstream, north and south of its equatorial waters, its waters equatorial courses. eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, inundations, deluges, cloudbursts: its own circumterrestrial ahorizontal curve: its secrets are springs, and latent moisture, revealed by the best instruments through the instruments that are hygrohabm in the wall Ashtown gate, abundance of air, distillation of dew: the simplicity of its composition, two constituent parts of hydrogen with one constituent part of oxygen: its healing appearance: its buoyancy in the waters of the Dead: its persevering penetrativeness in runnels, gullies, inadequate dams, burning on its properties for properties that are on fire, burning on the properties of ships water surface, clean properties and clean properties. the plant that preserves: its weakness as a pattern and paragon: its metamorphoses as night, mist, cloud, rain, sleet, snow, ice: its power is strong hydrants: various forms are loughs and bays and gulfs and gulfs and guts and lagoons and atolls and archipelagos and sounds and ornaments of the sea and ornaments of the sea and strong objects. glaciers, icebergs, icefloes: its docility in the hydraulic operation of millwheels, turbines, dynamos, power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutchmills: its utility in rivers, if navigation, floating and graving docks: its maximum flow from watercourses level to level of levels: famuli and levels of water. The flower (anacoustic, photophobe) is numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the globe: everywhere as it is 90% of the human body: the discomfort of its effluvia in lacustrine swamps, pestilential fens, raining flower waters, lakes in the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster preserves the Water Value, at the Cathedral of St. The largest exhibition shown at the Cathedral, it features over forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an ecological collection of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To mark the 10th anniversary of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, charity WaterAid commissioned ten visual artists to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is technically correct but not used the chemical name of water. This name has been used in a series of free-to-join discussions and posters mocking the ignorance of science. This began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story has security concerns about the article. music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida-based musicians as a catchphrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. To go even further some rappers have made whole songs dedicated to water in Florida, such as Danny Towers 2023 song "Florida Water". Look again
Notes
References
The services mentioned
Continue reading
External links

World Water Data Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Analyzing the Water Conflict: The Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
USGS (USGS)
Portal to World Bank policy, work and related publications on water resources
American Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water systems and science Archived 28 December 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the world", Opinions, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Chemistry of water stored on March 19, 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF Special Report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Storage 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary