Water is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula H2O. It is a transparent, tasteless, odorless, and almost colorless chemical. It is a major part of the world's streams, lakes, and oceans. Water is also the liquid of all known living things, where it acts as a solvent. Water, which is a white molecule, has strong intermolecular hydrogen bonding that contributes greatly to its physical and chemical properties. It is essential to all known forms of life, despite not providing dietary energy or organic micronutrients. Because of its presence in all living things, its chemical stability, its universal abundance, and its strong polarity compared to its small molecular size, water is often called the "universal solvent". Because the Earth's surface temperature and pressure are close to three times that of water, water exists on Earth as a solid, liquid, and gas. It forms precipitation in the form of rain and aerosols in the form of fog. Clouds consist of water droplets and ice that are suspended, in their solid form. When properly separated, the slush may freeze. The gaseous state of water is steam or water vapor. Water covers about 71% of the earth, oceans and seas make up the majority of the water volume (about 96.5%). Smaller components of water occur as groundwater (1.7%), in the ice caps and glaciers of Antarctica and Greenland (1.7%), and in the air as water vapor, clouds (which include ice and liquid water suspended in the air), and rain (0.001%). Water moves continuously through the water cycle of evaporation, evapotranspiration, condensation, precipitation, and runoff, often reaching the ocean. Water plays an important role in the global economy. About 70 percent of fresh water used by humans goes to agriculture. Saltwater and freshwater fisheries have been, and continue to be, a major source of food in many parts of the world, providing 6.5% of the world's protein. Most trade in goods (such as oil, natural gas, and manufactured products) is transported by barge on oceans, rivers, lakes, and canals. A lot of water, ice, and steam are used for cooling and heating in industry and homes. Water is an excellent solvent for a variety of substances, both mineral and organic; as such, it is widely used in industrial processes and in cooking and washing. Water, ice, and snow are also the home of many sports and other forms of recreation, such as swimming, recreational boating, boat racing, surfing, sport fishing, diving, skiing, snowboarding, and skiing. Etymology
The word water comes from Old English wæter, from Proto-Germanic *watar (source also of Old Saxon watar, Old Frisian wetir, Dutch water, Old High German wazzar, German Wasser, vatn, Gothic 𐍅𐌰𐍄𐍉 (wato)), from Proto-Indo-European *root *wod-or,' roots 'of the suffid;' It is also related, with an Indo-European root, to Greek ύδωρ (ýdor; from Ancient Greek ὕδωρ (hýdōr), whence English 'hydro-'), Russian вода́ (vodá), Irish uisce, and Albanian wāj. History
In the world
Buildings
Water (H2O) is a polar inorganic compound. At room temperature it is a tasteless and odorless, almost colorless and slightly blue liquid. A very simple hydrogen chalcogenide, it is the most studied chemical compound and is sometimes described as the "universal solvent" for its ability to dissolve more substances than any other liquid, although it is less effective at dissolving non-separate substances. This allows it to be the "solvent of life": indeed, water as it is found in nature probably includes various dissolved substances, and special measures are needed to obtain chemically pure water. Water is the only substance that normally exists as a solid, liquid, and gas in normal conditions on Earth. Countries
Along with oxidane, water is one of the two official names for the chemical compound H2O; and is the liquid phase of H2O. The other two common states of matter for water are the solid phase, which is ice, and the gas phase, water vapor or steam. The addition or removal of heat can cause phase changes: freezing (water to ice), melting (ice to water), evaporation (water to vapor), condensation (vapor to water), melting (ice to ice) and condensation (vapor to ice). Density
Water is one of the few common materials that expands and contracts significantly as it cools between certain temperatures; it is the only known natural substance that does so while in liquid form. In addition, it is unusual in that it shrinks more as it hardens, although it is not unique in that respect. At a pressure of 1 atm, it reaches its maximum density of 999.972 kg/m3 (62.4262 lb/cu ft) at 3.98 °C (39.16 °F). Below that temperature, but above 0 °C (32 °F), water expands (slightly shrinks) until it reaches its freezing point, where its density in the liquid phase is 999.8 kg/m3 (62.4155 lb/cu ft). As water cools to 3.98 °C (39.16 °F), the volume of water decreases. As it freezes and freezes, water expands by about 9%, reaching a density of 917 kg/m3 (57.25 lb/cu ft). This expansion can cause high pressure, burst pipes and cracked rocks. As a solid, it shows the normal behavior of contracting and becoming denser as it cools. These unusual thermal properties have important consequences for life on earth. In a lake or ocean, 4 °C (39 °F) water sinks to the bottom, and ice forms on the surface, floating on liquid water. This ice protects the water below, preventing it from becoming solid ice. Without this protection, many aquatic organisms living in lakes can die in winter. Furthermore, this anomalous behavior is an important part of the thermohaline circulation that distributes heat in the ocean. A magnet
Water is a diamagnetic material. Although the interaction is weak, with large magnets it can achieve a significant interaction. Phase changes
At a pressure of one atmosphere (atm), ice melts or water freezes (solidifies) at 0 °C (32 °F) and water boils or vaporizes at 100 °C (212 °F). However, even below the boiling point, water can change to vapor in its environment by evaporation (evaporation in all liquids is known as boiling). Sublimation and deposition occur on surfaces. For example, snow is deposited in a cold environment while snowflakes are formed by depositing aerosol particles or ice nuclei. In the freeze drying process, food is frozen and kept under low pressure so that the ice on its surface shrinks. Melting and boiling points are pressure dependent. A good approximation of the rate of change of melting temperature and pressure is given by the Clausius-Clapeyron relationship:

  
    
      
        
          
            
              d
              T
            
            
              d
              P
            
          
        
        =
        
          
            
              T
              
                (
                
                  
                    v
                    
                      L
                    
                  
                  −
                  
                    v
                    
                      S
                    
                  
                
                )
              
            
            
              L
              
                f
              
            
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle {\frac {dT}{dP}}={\frac {T\left(v_{\text{L}}-v_{\text{S}}\right)}{L_{\text{f}}}}}
  

there 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            L
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{L}}}
  
 again 
  
    
      
        
          v
          
            S
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle v_{\text{S}}}
  
 are the molar volumes of the liquid and solid phases, too 
  
    
      
        
          L
          
            f
          
        
      
    
    {\displaystyle L_{\text{f}}}
  
 molar latent heat of melting. For most materials, the volume increases when melting occurs, so the melting temperature increases with pressure. However, because ice is less dense than water, the melting temperature decreases. In glaciers, pressure melting can occur under sufficiently thick ice, resulting in subglacial lakes. The Clausius-Clapeyron relationship also applies to the boiling point, but at the liquid/gas transition the vapor phase has a much lower volume than the liquid phase, so the boiling point increases with pressure. Water can remain in liquid form at high temperatures deep in the ocean or underground. For example, temperatures exceed 205 °C (401 °F) at Old Faithful, a geyser in Yellowstone National Park. In hydrothermal vents, temperatures can exceed 400 °C (752 °F). At sea level, the boiling point of water is 100 °C (212 °F). As atmospheric pressure decreases with altitude, the boiling point drops by 1 °C every 274 meters. Cooking at altitude takes longer than cooking at sea. For example, at 1,524 meters (5,000 ft), the cooking time must be increased by four to achieve the desired result. Conversely, a pressure cooker can be used to reduce cooking times by increasing the boiling temperature. In a vacuum, water will boil at room temperature. Three important points
On a pressure/temperature phase diagram (see figure), there are curves that separate solid from vapor, vapor from liquid, and liquid from solid. These meet at a single point called the triple point, where all three phases can coexist. The triple point is at a temperature of 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F) and a pressure of 611.657 pascals (0.00604 atm; 0.0887 psi); it is the lowest pressure liquid water can have. Until 2019, the triple point was used to define the Kelvin temperature scale. The water/vapor phase curve intersects at 647.096 K (373.946 °C; 705.103 °F) and 22.064 megapascals (3,200.1 psi; 217.75 atm). This is known as a critical point. At high temperatures and pressures the liquid and vapor phases form a continuous phase called the superfluid. It can be gradually compressed or expanded between gas-like and liquid-like densities; its properties (which are very different from those of the surrounding water) are sensitive to density. For example, at the right pressure and temperature it can mix freely with nonpolar compounds, including many organic compounds. This makes it useful in a variety of applications including high temperature electricity and as an environmentally hazardous solvent or catalyst in chemical reactions involving organic compounds. In the earth's crust, it acts as a solvent during mineral formation, dissolution and dissolution. Phases of ice and water
The most common type of ice on Earth's surface is ice Ih, a phase that forms crystals with a hexagonal symmetry. One with cubic crystalline symmetry, ice Ic, can occur in the upper atmosphere. As the pressure increases, the ice forms other crystal structures. As of 2024, twenty have been experimentally confirmed and many more are theoretically predicted. The eighteenth type of ice, ice XVIII, which is the middle layer of ice on the surface, was discovered when a drop of water was subjected to a shock wave that raised the water pressure to millions of atmospheres and the temperature to thousands of degrees, which resulted in a structure of solid oxygen atoms in which hydrogen atoms flowed freely. When sandwiched between layers of graphene, ice forms a square lattice. The chemical nature of liquid water is poorly understood; some theories suggest that its unusual behavior is due to the existence of two liquid states. Taste and smell
Fresh water is generally described as tasteless and odorless, although humans have certain senses that can sense the presence of water in their mouths, and frogs are known to have a sense of smell. However, water from regular sources (including mineral water) often has many dissolved substances that can give it different tastes and odors. Humans and other animals have developed senses that enable them to assess the availability of water to avoid salty or rotten water. Color and appearance
Pure water is clearly green due to the absorption of light in the c region. 600-800 nm. The color can easily be seen in a glass of tap water set against a pure white background, during the day. The main absorption bands responsible for the color are the O–H stretching vibrational tones. The apparent intensity of color increases with depth in the water column, following Beer's law. This also works, for example, with a swimming pool where the light source is sunlight from the white tiles in the pool. In nature, the color can also be changed from blue to green due to the presence of suspended solids or algae. In industry, near-infrared spectroscopy is used with aqueous solutions as the high viscosity of groundwater means that glass cuvettes with short path lengths can be used. To observe the broad fundamental absorption spectrum of water or an aqueous solution at around 3,500 cm−1 (2.85 μm) a path length of about 25 μm is required. Also, the cuvette must be both transparent at about 3500 cm−1 and insoluble in water; Calcium fluoride is one of the most commonly used materials in cuvette windows with aqueous solutions. Fundamental Raman vibrations can be observed, for example, in a 1 cm sample cell. Aquatic plants, algae, and other photosynthetic organisms can live in water up to hundreds of meters deep, because sunlight can reach them. Virtually no sunlight reaches parts of the ocean below 1,000 meters (3,300 ft) deep. The refractive index of liquid water (1.333 at 20 °C (68 °F)) is much higher than that of air (1.0), similar to that of alkanes and ethanol, but lower than that of glycerol (1.473), 1.501), carbon disulfide (1.627), and common forms of benzene (1.6). The refractive index of ice (1.31) is lower than that of liquid water. Molecular polarity
In a water molecule, the hydrogen atoms form an angle of 104.5° with the oxygen atom. The hydrogen atoms near the two corners of the tetrahedron are centered on oxygen. At the other two corners there are lone pairs of valence electrons that do not participate in bonding. In an ideal tetrahedron, the atoms would form an angle of 109.5°, but the repulsion between lone pairs is greater than the repulsion between hydrogen atoms. The length of the O–H bond is about 0.096 nm. Some substances have a tetrahedral molecular structure, for example methane (CH4) and hydrogen sulfide (H2S). However, oxygen is more electronegative than most other elements, so the oxygen atom has a negative partial charge while the hydrogen atoms are slightly positively charged. Along with the bent structure, this gives the molecule an electric dipole moment and is classified as a polar molecule. Water is a good polar solvent, dissolving most salts and hydrophilic organic molecules such as sugars and light alcohols such as ethanol. Water also dissolves many gases, such as oxygen and carbon dioxide - the latter giving fizz to carbonated drinks, sparkling wine and beer. In addition, many living organisms, such as proteins, DNA and polysaccharides, are dissolved in water. Interactions between water and subunits of these biomacromolecules form protein folding, DNA base pairing, and other important events in life (hydrophobic effect). Many organic substances (such as fats and oils and alkanes) are hydrophobic, that is, they do not dissolve in water. Many inorganic substances are also insoluble, including many metal oxides, sulfides, and silicates. Hydrogen bonding
Because of its polarity, a water molecule in a liquid or solid state can form four hydrogen bonds with neighboring molecules. Hydrogen bonds are about ten times stronger than the Van der Waals forces that attract molecules in most liquids. This is the reason why the melting point and boiling point of water is much higher than that of other compounds such as hydrogen sulfide. They also describe its very high specific heat capacity (about 4.2 J/(g·K)), heat of fusion (about 333 J/g), heat of vaporization (2257 J/g), and thermal conductivity (between 0.561 and 0.679 W/(m·K)). These structures make water more effective in moderating the Earth's climate, by storing heat and transporting it between the oceans and the atmosphere. The hydrogen bonds of water are about 23 kJ/mol (compared to the single O–H bond at 492 kJ/mol). Of this, it is estimated that 90% is caused by electrostatics, and the remaining 10% is partially coherent. These bonds are responsible for the high water tension and capillary forces. Capillary action refers to the tendency of water to move up a small tube against gravity. This structure depends on all plants with blood vessels, such as trees. Self-ionization
Water is a weak solution of hydronium hydroxide - there is an equilibrium 2H2O ⇌ H3O+ + OH−, combined with the solvation of hydronium and hydroxide ions. Electrolysis and electrical conductivity
Pure water has a low electrical conductivity, which increases with the addition of a small amount of ionic compounds such as common salt. Liquid water can be split into hydrogen and oxygen by passing an electric current through it—a process called electrolysis. Decomposition requires more energy input than the heat released in the reverse process (285.8 kJ/mol, or 15.9 MJ/kg). Mechanical properties
Liquid water can be considered incompressible for many purposes: its pressure varies from 4.4 to 5.1×10−10 Pa−1 at standard conditions. Even in the oceans at a depth of 4 km, where the pressure is 400 atm, the water drops by only 1.8%. The viscosity of water is about 10−3 Pa·s or 0.01 poise at 20 °C (68 °F), and the speed of sound in liquid water ranges between 1,400 and 1,540 meters per second (4,600 and 5,100 ft/s) depending on temperature. Sound travels long distances in water with little attenuation, especially at low frequencies (about 0.03 dB/km at 1 kHz), an area exploited by cetaceans and humans for communication and environmental hearing (sonar). Rework
Metal elements that are more electropositive than hydrogen, especially the alkali metals and, to a lesser extent, the alkaline earth metals, displace hydrogen from water, forming hydroxides and releasing hydrogen. At high temperatures, coke, a form of carbon, combines with steam to form carbon monoxide and hydrogen. In the world
Hydrology is the study of the movement, distribution, and quality of water throughout the world. The study of the distribution of water is hydrography. The study of the distribution and movement of groundwater is hydrogeology, of glaciers is glaciology, of inland waters is limnology and the distribution of oceans is oceanography. Environmental processes in hydrology focus on ecohydrology. The mass of water found on, below and above the planet is called the hydrosphere. The estimated water volume of the earth (the total amount of water on earth) is 1.386 billion cubic kilometers (333 million cubic miles). Liquid water is found in water, such as an ocean, sea, lake, river, stream, canal, lake, or puddle. Most of the water on Earth is sea water. Water also exists in the atmosphere in solid, liquid, and vapor states. It also exists as groundwater in water. Water is essential to many geological processes. Groundwater is present in many rocks, and the pressure of this groundwater affects patterns of dysfunction. The water in the mantle is responsible for the melting that produces volcanoes in melting zones. On Earth's surface, water is essential to both chemical and physical weathering processes. Water, and to a lesser but important extent, ice, is also responsible for most of the sediment transport that occurs on the Earth's surface. The deposition of transported sediment forms many types of sedimentary rocks, which form the geologic record of Earth's history. The water cycle
The water cycle (known scientifically as the hydrologic cycle) is the continuous exchange of water within the hydrosphere, between the atmosphere, soil water, surface water, groundwater, and vegetation. Water moves continuously through each of these regions in a water cycle that includes the following transfer processes:

evaporation from seas and other water sources into the air and transpiration from land plants and animals into the air. rain, from water vapor that condenses from the air and falls to land or sea. land runoff that often reaches the sea. Most of the water vapor found in the ocean returns to it, but winds carry water vapor over land at the same rate as ocean currents, about 47 Tt per year while land evaporation and climate change contribute another 72 Tt per year. Precipitation, amounting to 119 Tt per year on earth, is of several types: mostly rain, snow, and hail, accompanied by fog and dew. Dew is small water droplets that condense when more water vapor meets a cooler surface. Dew usually forms in the morning when the temperature is at its lowest, just before sunrise and when the global temperature starts to rise. Condensed water in the air may refract sunlight to produce a rainbow. Runoff often collects on top of rivers that flow into rivers. Through soil erosion, the flow of water shapes the environment creating river valleys and deltas that provide rich soil and ideal habitat for human settlements. A flood occurs when an area of ​​land, usually low-lying, is covered with water that occurs when a river overflows its banks or a storm hits. On the other hand, a drought is a long period of months or years when a region experiences a lack of water. This occurs when a region consistently receives below average rainfall due to topography or because of its location in terms of latitude. Water sources
Water resources are natural sources of water that can be useful to people, for example as a source of drinking water or irrigation water. Water appears as both "stocks" and "flows". Water can be stored as lakes, water vapor, groundwater or aquifers, and snow and ice. Of the total volume of fresh water on the globe, approximately 69 percent is stored in glaciers and permanent ice caps; 30 percent is in groundwater; and the remaining one percent in lakes, rivers, the atmosphere and ecosystems. The length of time water remains in storage varies greatly: some groundwater bodies contain water stored over thousands of years, but the volume of reservoirs may fluctuate seasonally, decreasing during dry periods and increasing during wet periods. A large part of the water supply in some regions consists of water extracted from water stored in reservoirs, and when the withdrawal exceeds the recharge, the stocks decrease. According to some estimates, about 30 percent of the total water used for irrigation comes from uncontrolled extraction of groundwater, causing groundwater depletion. Sea water and waves
Seawater contains about 3.5% sodium chloride on average, along with smaller amounts of other substances. The physical properties of seawater differ from fresh water in some important respects. It solidifies at low temperatures (about -1.9 °C (28.6 °F)) and its density increases with decreasing temperature to the freezing point, instead of reaching maximum density at temperatures above freezing. The salinity of the sea water varies from 0.7% in the Baltic Sea to 4.0% in the Red Sea. (The Dead Sea, known for its extremely high salinity levels of between 30 and 40%, is actually a salt lake.)
Tides are the cyclical rise and fall of local sea levels caused by the tidal forces of the Moon and Sun acting on the ocean. Tides cause changes in water depth in oceans and rivers and produce oscillating currents known as tidal currents. The change in tides produced in a given area is the result of changing positions of the Moon and the Sun relative to the Earth combined with the effects of the Earth's rotation and the bathymetry of the area. A coastline that is submerged at high tide and exposed at low tide, the intertidal zone, is an important natural product of ocean tides. Effects on health
From a biological point of view, water has many unique properties that are important for the growth of life. It fulfills this role by allowing organisms to react in ways that allow replication. All known forms of life depend on water. Water is important both as a solvent in which many of the body's solutes dissolve and as an important part of many metabolic processes in the body. Metabolism is the sum total of anabolism and catabolism. In anabolism, water is removed from molecules (with energy that requires enzymatic chemical reactions) to grow larger molecules (eg, starch, triglycerides, and proteins to store fat and information). In catabolism, water is used to break bonds to produce smaller molecules (eg, sugars, fatty acids, and amino acids to be used as fuels for energy use or other purposes). Without water, these metabolic processes would not exist. Water is fundamental to both photosynthesis and respiration. Photosynthetic cells use the sun's energy to split water into hydrogen and oxygen. In the presence of sunlight, hydrogen combines with CO2 (absorbed from air or water) to form glucose and release oxygen. All living cells use such fuels and oxidize hydrogen and carbon to capture solar energy and convert water and CO2 in the process (cellular respiration). Water is also part of acid-base neutrality and enzyme activity. An acid, a hydrogen ion (H+, that is, a proton) donor, can be displaced by a base, a proton acceptor such as a hydroxide ion (OH-) to form water. Water is considered neutral, with a pH (negative log of hydrogen ion concentration) of 7 in ideal conditions. Acids have a pH value below 7 while bases have values ​​above 7. Forms of aquatic life
The surface waters of the earth are teeming with life. The first life forms appeared in water; almost all fish live exclusively in water, and there are many species of marine mammals, such as dolphins and whales. Some species, such as amphibians, spend part of their lives in water and parts on land. Plants such as kelp and algae grow in water and are the basis of underwater life. Plankton is generally the base of the marine food chain. Amphibians must get oxygen to survive, and they do this in a variety of ways. Fish have lungs instead of lungs, although some species of fish, such as lungfish, have both. Marine mammals, such as dolphins, whales, otters, and seals need to surface from time to time to breathe. Some amphibians are able to absorb oxygen through their skin. Invertebrates show a variety of adaptations to survive in poorly oxygenated water including breathing tubes (see insects and mollusc siphons) and gills (Carcinus). However, since life in invertebrates evolved in an aquatic environment, most have little or no knowledge of aquatic respiration. Implications for human civilization
Civilizations have historically flourished along rivers and waterways; Mesopotamia, one of the so-called centers of civilization, was between the great rivers Tigris and Euphrates; The ancient Egyptian society was completely dependent on the Nile River. The early Indus Valley Civilization (c. 3300 BCE - c. 1300 BCE) developed along the Indus River and its tributaries that flowed from the Himalayan Mountains. Rome was also founded on the banks of the Italian river Tiber. Large cities such as Rotterdam, London, Montreal, Paris, New York City, Buenos Aires, Shanghai, Tokyo, Chicago, and Hong Kong owe their success in part to their easy access by water and increased trade. Islands with safe harbors, such as Singapore, have prospered for the same reason. In places like North Africa and the Middle East, where water is scarce, access to clean drinking water was a key factor in human development. Health and dirt
Water that is fit for human consumption is called drinking water or potable water. Non-potable water can be made potable by filtration or filtration, or by a number of other methods. More than 660 million people do not have access to safe drinking water. Water that is not suitable for drinking but is not harmful to people when swimming or bathing is called different names other than that for drinking or drinking, and sometimes it is called safe water, or "safe for bathing". Chlorine is a skin and mucous membrane irritant that is used to make water safe for bathing or drinking. Its use is high-tech and often regulated by government regulations (typically 1 part per million (ppm) for drinking water, and 1–2 ppm for unmixed chlorine in bathing water pollution). Bath water may be maintained in a satisfactory microbiological condition using chemical disinfectants such as chlorine or ozone or by using ultraviolet light. Water reclamation is the process of converting wastewater (usually sewage, also called municipal wastewater) into water that can be reused for other purposes. There are 2.3 billion people living in water-scarce countries, meaning that each person receives less than 1,700 cubic meters (60,000 cu ft) of water per year. 380 billion cubic meters (13×10^12 cu ft) of municipal wastewater is produced worldwide every year. Fresh water is a renewable resource, which is recycled by the natural hydrologic cycle, but the pressures to access it are caused by its uneven distribution in space and time, the growing economic demands of agriculture and industry, and the increase in population. Currently, nearly one billion people around the world do not have access to safe, affordable water. In 2000, the United Nations established the Millennium Development Goals to halve by 2015 the number of people worldwide without access to safe water and sanitation. Progress towards that goal has been uneven, and in 2015 the UN committed to the Sustainable Development Goals of universal access to safe and affordable water and sanitation by 2030. Poor water quality and poor sanitation are deadly; about five million deaths a year are caused by water-related diseases. The World Health Organization estimates that clean water can prevent 1.4 million child deaths from diarrhea each year. In developing countries, 90% of all municipal wastewater still enters local rivers and streams. About 50 countries, about one-third of the world's population, also suffer from moderate or severe water scarcity and 17 of these withdraw more water annually than is replenished through their natural water cycles. This type of crisis not only affects freshwater habitats such as rivers and lakes, but also degrades groundwater. Human consumption
Agriculture
Most of the water used by humans is for agriculture, including irrigation, which accounts for 80 to 90 percent of the total water used by humans. In the United States, 42% of the freshwater withdrawn for use is for irrigation, but most of the "used" water (used and not returned to the environment) goes to agriculture. Access to clean water is often taken for granted, especially in developed countries that have developed complex water systems to collect, purify, deliver water, and dispose of wastewater. But growing economic, demographic, and climate pressures are increasing concerns about water issues, leading to increased competition for fixed water resources, giving rise to the concept of high water. As populations and economies continue to grow, consumption of water-hungry meat increases, and new demands for biofuels or new water-intensive industries, new water challenges may arise. An assessment of agricultural water management was conducted in 2007 by the International Water Management Institute in Sri Lanka to determine whether the world has enough water to feed its growing population. It assessed the current availability of water for agriculture around the world and listed areas with water shortages. It found that a fifth of the world's population, more than 1.2 billion, live in water-scarce areas, where there is not enough water to meet all needs. Another 1.6 billion people live in economically water-stressed areas, where a lack of investment in water or insufficient human capacity makes it difficult for authorities to meet water demand. The report found that it is possible to produce the food needed in the future, but the continuation of today's food production and natural methods will lead to problems in many parts of the world. To avoid a global water crisis, farmers will have to strive to increase production to meet growing food demands, while industries and cities find ways to use water more efficiently. Water scarcity is also caused by the production of water-intensive products. For example, cotton: 1 kg of cotton—the equivalent of a pair of jeans—requires 10.9 cubic meters (380 cu ft) of water to produce. Although cotton accounts for 2.4% of global water use, water is used in regions that are already at risk of water scarcity. A great deal of damage has been caused to the environment: for example, the former Soviet Union's diversion of water from the Amu Darya and Syr Darya rivers for cotton production was a major cause of the disappearance of the Aral Sea. As a scientific standard
On 7 April 1795, the gram was defined in France as equal to "the total weight of a volume of pure water equal to one hundred cubic meters, and at the temperature of melting ice". However, for practical purposes, a reference standard of iron was needed, one thousand times larger, the kilogram. So he was given the task of accurately determining the weight of one liter of water. Despite the fact that the established definition of the gram specified water at 0 °C (32 °F)—a reproducible temperature—scientists chose to redefine the standard and make their measurements at the highest density temperature of water, measured at the time as 4 °C (39 °F). The Kelvin temperature of the SI system was based on the triple point of water, defined as exactly 273.16 K (0.01 °C; 32.02 °F), but as of May 2019 we are based on the Boltzmann constant. The scale is an absolute temperature scale with the same increments as the Celsius temperature scale, originally defined in terms of the boiling point (set at 100 °C (212 °F)) and melting point (set at 0 °C (32 °F)) of water. Natural water contains mainly the isotopes hydrogen-1 and oxygen-16, but there are also small amounts of the isotopes oxygen-18, oxygen-17, and hydrogen-2 (deuterium). The percentage of heavy isotopes is very small, but it still affects the properties of water. Water from rivers and lakes often has heavier isotopes than seawater. Therefore, standard water is defined in the Vienna Standard Mean Ocean Water. For drinking
The human body contains, on average, 50-60% water, depending on age, gender and body size, although people can have anywhere between 45% and 75%. The U.S. The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine recommends a daily intake of 3.7 L (0.98 U.S. gal) of water for adult men and 2.7 L (0.71 U.S. gal) for women. The exact amount depends on the level of activity, temperature, humidity, and other factors. Most of this is taken in through food or drinks without drinking straight water. The medical literature recommends low consumption, typically 1 liter of water for the average man, not including additional needs due to fluid loss from exercise or warm weather. Healthy kidneys can excrete 0.8 to 1 liter of water per hour, but stress such as exercise can reduce this amount. People can drink more water than necessary when exercising, putting them at risk of hyperhydration, which can be very dangerous. The popular claim that "a person should drink eight glasses of water a day" appears to have no real basis in science. Studies have shown that drinking more water, especially up to 500 milliliters (18 imp fl oz; 17 US fl oz) during meals, was associated with weight loss. Drinking enough fluids helps prevent constipation. The original 1945 water intake recommendation of the U.S. Food and Nutrition Board was The National Research Council read: "The normal level for various people is one milliliter per calorie of food. Most of this amount is found in processed foods." The latest dietary reference report by the U.S. The National Research Council generally recommends, based on the average total amount of water from the US survey data (including food sources): 3.7 liters (0.81 imp gal; 0.98 US gal) for men and 2.7 liters (0.59 imp gal; 0.71 total water given to women about 19% of women about gal) the amount of water used in the study. In particular, pregnant and lactating women need more fluids to stay hydrated. The US Institute of Medicine recommends that, on average, men consume 3 liters (0.66 imp gal; 0.79 US gal) and women consume 2.2 liters (0.48 imp gal; 0.58 US gal); pregnant women should increase their intake to 2.4 liters (0.53 imp gal; 0.63 US gal) and breastfeeding women should get 3 liters (12 cups), as more fluid is lost during breastfeeding. Another observation is that in general, about 20 percent of water intake comes from food, while the rest comes from drinking water and beverages (including caffeinated). Water is removed from the body in many ways; through urine and faeces, through sweat, and through the release of water vapor from the soul. With physical exertion and exposure to heat, water loss will increase and daily fluid requirements may also increase. People need water with less impurities. Common contaminants include metals such as copper and lead; chemical compounds such as pesticides, PFAS, or bleach; and harmful bacteria, such as Campylobacter, E. coli O157, and Vibrio. Other solutes are acceptable and desirable for improving taste and providing needed electrolytes. The single largest resource (by volume) of fresh water suitable for drinking is Lake Baikal in Siberia. Bathing
Transportation
Use of chemicals
Water is mostly used in chemical reactions as a solvent or reactant and to a lesser extent as a solute or catalyst. In inorganic reactions, water is a common solvent, which dissolves many ionic compounds, as well as other polar compounds such as ammonia and compounds closely related to water. In organic reactions, it is usually not used as a reaction solvent, because it does not dissolve the reactants well and is amphoteric (acidic and basic) and nucleophilic. However, these properties are sometimes desirable. Also, acceleration of the Diels-Alder reaction with water has been observed. Water is very important recently has been the subject of research. Oxygen-rich water burns more pollutants. Heat exchange
Water and steam are the most common fluids used for heat exchange, due to their availability and high heat capacity, both for cooling and heating. Cool water may be found naturally in a lake or ocean. It is very efficient at transporting heat through evaporation and condensation of water due to its large latent heat of vaporization. The downside is that metals commonly found in industries such as iron and copper are quickly oxidized by untreated water and steam. In almost all thermal power stations, water is used as the working fluid (used in the closed space between the boiler, steam turbine, and condenser), and the coolant (used to exchange waste heat in a body of water or carry it to vapor in a cooling tower). In the United States, the cooling industry is the largest user of water. In the nuclear power industry, water can also be used as a neutron moderator. In most nuclear reactors, water is the coolant and moderator. This provides something of a passive safety measure, as removing water from the reactor also slows down the nuclear reaction. However other methods are chosen to stop the reaction and it is preferred to keep the nuclear core covered with water to ensure adequate cooling. Consideration of fire
Water has a high vaporization temperature and low reactivity, making it a good firefighting liquid. Water vapor carries heat away from the fire. It is dangerous to use water on fires involving fuel and organic solvents because most organic matter floats in water and water tends to spread flammable liquids. The use of water in firefighting should also take into account the dangers of steam explosions, which can occur if water is used in high-temperature fires in confined spaces, and hydrogen explosions, when substances that react with water, such as certain metals or hot carbon such as coal, coal, or coke graphite, decompose water, producing water gas. The power of such an explosion was seen in the Chernobyl disaster, although the water involved in this case did not come from extinguishing the fire but from the water cooling system of the reactor. A steam explosion occurs when the excess heat of the core causes water to flash into steam. A hydrogen explosion may occur due to the reaction between steam and hot zirconium. Some metallic oxides, especially those of the alkali metals and alkaline earth metals, generate so much heat when in contact with water that a fire hazard may arise. Alkaline earth oxide quicklime, also known as calcium oxide, is a mass-produced product that is often shipped in paper bags. If these are soaked, they may catch fire as their contents react with water. For recreation
People use water for many recreational purposes, as well as exercise and sports. Some of them include swimming, waterskiing, boating, surfing and scuba diving. In addition, other sports, such as ice hockey and ice skating, are played on ice. Lakesides, beaches and water parks are popular places where people can go to relax and enjoy entertainment. Many find the sound and sight of flowing water calming, and fountains and other flowing water structures are popular decorations. Others keep fish and other plants and animals in aquariums or ponds for display, entertainment, and companionship. People also use water for snow sports, such as skiing, skating, snowmobiling or snowboarding, which require the water to be as cold as ice or to freeze. Water industry
The water industry provides drinking water and wastewater services (including sewage treatment) to homes and industries. Water supply facilities include water wells, rainwater harvesting tanks, water supply channels, and water treatment facilities, water tanks, water towers, water pipes including old canals. Space water generators are still in development. Drinking water is often collected from wells, pumped from artificial holes (wells) in the ground, or pumped into lakes and rivers. So building more wells in sufficient areas is a feasible way to produce more water, assuming the aquifer can provide sufficient flow. Other sources of water include rainwater collection. Water may need to be treated for human consumption. This may include the removal of undissolved substances, dissolved substances and harmful bacteria. Popular methods are sand filtration which only removes undissolved material, while chlorination and boiling kill harmful bacteria. Distillation does all three functions. There are more advanced techniques, such as reverse osmosis. Desalination of seawater is a very expensive solution used in dry coastal areas. Distribution of drinking water is done through municipal water systems, delivery from tanks or as bottled water. Governments in many countries have programs to distribute water to the needy for free. Reducing consumption by using potable (potable) water for human consumption only is another way. In some cities such as Hong Kong, seawater is widely used to flush toilets throughout the city to conserve fresh water sources. Polluting water may be one of the biggest misuses of water; to the extent that pollution restricts other uses of water, it is a waste of the resource, regardless of the benefits to the polluter. As with other types of pollution, this does not include the standard accounting of market costs, which are considered externalities that the market cannot account for. So some people pay the price of water pollution, while the profits of private companies are not redistributed to the local community, the victims of this pollution. Chemicals used by humans often end up in water and can have harmful effects on aquatic life if they bioaccumulate and if they do not decompose. Municipal and industrial wastewater is usually treated in wastewater treatment plants. Reducing wastewater flow is addressed through a variety of prevention and treatment methods. Industrial applications
Many industrial processes rely on reactions using chemicals dissolved in water, the suspension of solids in aqueous solutions or using water to dissolve and extract materials, or to wash products or process equipment. Processes such as mining, chemical refining, pulping, paper production, textile production, dyeing, printing, and cooling power plants use a lot of water, which requires a dedicated water source, and often causes significant water pollution. Water is used to generate electricity. Hydroelectricity is electricity derived from water. The electrical energy from the water drives a water turbine connected to a generator. Hydroelectricity is a low-cost, non-polluting, renewable source of energy. Energy is provided by the movement of water. Usually a dam is built on a river, creating an artificial lake behind it. The water flowing out of the lake is forced by using wind turbines that convert electricity. High pressure water is used in water blasting and water jet cutting equipment. High pressure water guns are used for direct cutting. It is very efficient, relatively safe, and does not harm the environment. It is also used in machine cooling to prevent overheating, or to prevent saw blades from overheating. Water is also used in many industrial processes and machines, such as steam turbines and heat exchangers, in addition to its use as a chemical solvent. Discharge of untreated industrial water is pollution. Effluents include dissolved solids (chemical effluents) and discharged cooling water (thermal effluents). The industry requires clean water for many applications and uses a variety of treatment techniques for both water supply and discharge. The digital sector, especially Artificial intelligence uses a lot of water, so the expansion of AI "could threaten global and national water security". Food processing
Boiling, boiling, and steaming are popular recipes that often require immersing food in water or its gaseous state, steam. Water is also used for washing dishes. Water also plays many important roles in the field of food science. Solvents such as salts and sugars found in water affect the physical properties of water. Boiling and freezing water are affected by solutes, as well as air pressure, which is affected by altitude. Water boils at low temperatures with low air pressure that occurs at high altitudes. One mole of sucrose (sugar) per kilogram of water raises the boiling point of water by 0.51 °C (0.918 °F), and one mole of salt per kilogram raises the boiling point by 1.02 °C (1.836 °F); similarly, increasing the number of dissolved particles lowers the freezing point of water. Solutes in water also affect water activity which affects many chemical reactions and the growth of microbes in food. Water activity can be defined as the ratio of the vapor pressure of water to the vapor pressure of pure water. Solutes in water reduce water activity - this is important to know because most bacterial growth stops at low water activity levels. Microbial growth affects not only food safety, but also preservation and shelf life of food. Water hardness is also an important factor in food processing and can be changed or treated using a chemical exchange system. It can greatly affect the quality of the product, as well as the participation in sewage treatment. Water hardness is classified based on the concentration of calcium carbonate the water contains. Water is classified as soft if it contains less than 100 mg/L (UK) or less than 60 mg/L (US). According to a report published by the Water Footprint organization in 2010, one kilogram of beef requires 15 thousand liters (3.3×10^3 imp gal; 4.0×10^3 US gal) of water; however, the authors also clarify that this is a global average and factors affecting the conditions that determine the amount of water used in beef production. Medical use
Water for injection is on the World Health Organization's list of essential medicines. Distribute naturally
In space
Most of the water in the universe is produced as a result of the formation of stars. The formation of stars is accompanied by a strong outer wind of gas and dust. When these outflows eventually impact the surrounding gas, shock waves are created that compress and heat the gas. Visible water is rapidly produced from this warm dense gas. On July 22, 2011, a report described the discovery of a large cloud of water vapor containing "140 billion times more water than all the Earth's oceans combined" surrounding a quasar located 12 billion years from Earth. According to the researchers, "the findings show that water has always filled the entire surface almost everywhere". Water is found in interstellar clouds within the Milky Way. Water is probably abundant in other galaxies as well, because its components, hydrogen and oxygen, are among the most abundant elements in the universe. Based on models of the formation and evolution of the Solar System and that of other star systems, many other planetary systems probably have similar ingredients. Water vapor
Water exists as vapor in:

Atmosphere of the Sun: at available rates
Atmosphere of Mercury: 3.4%, and a large amount of water in the Exosphere of Mercury
Atmosphere of Venus: 0.002%
Earth's atmosphere: ≈0.40% over the full atmosphere, typically 1–4% in space
Atmosphere of the Moon: in small amounts
Mars atmosphere: 0.03%
The atmosphere of Ceres
Jupiter's atmosphere: 0.0004% - ice only; and its moon Europa
Saturn's atmosphere - only ice; Enceladus: 91% and Dione (underground ocean)
The atmosphere of Uranus - with tracer values below 50 bars
Neptune's Atmosphere - located in the deepest layers
Extrasolar planet atmospheres: including those of HD 189733 b and HD 209458 b, Tau Boötis b, HAT-P-11b, XO-1b, WASP-12b, WASP-17b, and WASP-19b. Stellar Universe: it is not limited to cool stars and is also found in large hot stars like Betelgeuse, Mu Cephei, Antares and Arcturus. Circumstellar disks: include those of more than half of the T Tauri stars such as AA Tauri and TW Hydrae, IRC +10216 and APM 08279+5255, VY Canis Majoris and S Persei. Water is liquid
Liquid water exists on Earth, covering 71% of its surface. Liquid water also exists in small amounts on Mars from time to time. Scientists believe that liquid water exists on the Saturnian moons of Enceladus, as a 10 km thick ocean about 30–40 km below the southern surface of Enceladus, and on Titan, as a subsurface layer, possibly mixed with ammonia. Jupiter's moon Europa has surface features that suggest a subsurface ocean. Liquid water may exist on Jupiter's moon Ganymede as a layer sandwiched between high-pressure ice and rock. Water ice
Water exists as ice in:

 Mars: under the regolith and at the poles. Earth-Moon system: mainly as ice sheets on Earth and in Lunar craters and volcanic rocks NASA reported the discovery of water molecules by NASA's Moon Mineralogy Mapper on the Indian Space Research Organisation's Chandrayaan-1 in September 2009. Ceres
Jupiter's moons: Europa's surface and that of Ganymede and Callisto
Saturn: in the planetary ring system and above and in the mantle of Titan and Enceladus
The Pluto-Charon system
Comets and other related Kuiper belt and Oort cloud objects
And it may be in:

Poles of Mercury
The Tethys

Unusual forms
Water and other volatiles probably make up most of the internal structures of Uranus and Neptune and the water in the deepest layers may be in the form of ionic water where the atoms split into a soup of hydrogen and oxygen ions, and deep as super water where oxygen crystallizes, but the hydrogen ions float freely within the oxygen. Water and habitable planets
The presence of liquid water, and to a lesser extent its gaseous and solid forms, on Earth is essential to the existence of life on Earth as we know it. Earth is located in the habitable zone of the Solar System; if it were closer or further away from the Sun (about 5%, or about 8 million kilometers), the conditions that allow these three species to coexist would be very unlikely. Earth's size also plays a role: its gravity allows it to hold the atmosphere, including air moisture. Smaller planets like Mars have very little or no atmosphere. Water vapor and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere provide a temperature buffer (greenhouse effect) that helps maintain a stable surface temperature if it exists at normal values. The state of water on a planet depends on the surface pressure, which is determined by the planet's gravity. If the planet is large enough, its water may solidify even at high temperatures, due to the high pressure caused by gravity, as was observed in the exoplanets Gliese 436 b and GJ 1214 b. Law, politics, and problems
Water politics is politics that is concerned with water and water. Water, especially clean water, is a global strategic resource and a key factor in many political conflicts. It causes health impacts and damage to biodiversity. Access to safe drinking water has improved over the past decades in almost all parts of the world, but nearly one billion people still lack access to safe water and more than 2.5 billion lack access to sanitation. However, some observers have estimated that by 2025 more than half of the world's population will be at risk from water. The report, released in November 2009, suggests that by 2030, in some developing regions of the world, water demand will exceed water supply by 50%. 1.6 billion people have had access to a safe water source since 1990. The number of people in developing countries with access to safe water has increased from 30% in 1970 to 71% in 1990, 79% in 2000, and 84% in 2004. mismanagement and corruption. Additionally, global initiatives to improve the effectiveness of aid delivery, such as the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness, have not been implemented by donors in the water sector as effectively as they have been in education and health, which may leave many donors working on related projects and recipient governments without the power to take action. The authors of the 2007 Comprehensive Survey of Agricultural Water Management cited poor governance as one of the reasons for water scarcity. Water management is a set of formal and informal processes through which decisions are made regarding water management. Water management is primarily about knowing which practices work best in a given physical and economic situation. Sometimes mistakes are made by trying to use 'blueprints' that work in developed countries to improve land areas and conditions. The Mekong River is one example; a review of policies by the International Water Management Institute in six countries that rely on the Mekong River for water found that in-depth and transparent cost-benefit analyzes and environmental impact assessments were rarely carried out. They also discovered that Cambodia's drainage laws were more complicated than they needed to be. In 2004, the UK charity WaterAid reported that a child dies every 15 seconds from preventable water-related diseases, which are often associated with a lack of adequate toilets. Since 2003, the UN World Water Development Report, produced by the UNESCO World Water Assessment Programme, has provided decision makers with tools to develop sustainable water policies. The 2023 report states that 2 billion people (26% of the population) do not have access to safe drinking water and 3.6 billion (46%) do not have access to safe sanitation. People in urban areas (2.4 billion) will face water shortages by 2050. Water shortages have been described as common, due to overuse and pollution. The report states that 10% of the world's population lives in countries with high or critical water stress. Yet over the past 40 years, water use has increased by about 1% per year, and is expected to grow at the same rate until 2050. Since 2000, flooding in the tropics has quadrupled, while flooding in the northern mid-latitudes has increased by a factor of 2.5. The cost of these floods between 2000 and 2019 was 100,000 deaths and 650 million dollars. Organizations concerned with water protection include the International Water Association (IWA), WaterAid, Water 1st, and the American Water Resources Association. The International Water Management Institute develops projects with the aim of using water management in an effective way to reduce poverty. Conventions related to water are the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and the Ramsar Convention. World Water Day takes place on 22 March and World Oceans Day on 8 June. In 2026, the United Nations announced that humanity has entered an era of "water scarcity" because more than 50% of the great lakes have shrunk since the 1990s, 35% of wetlands have disappeared since 1970, 75% of the world's people live in countries without water, 4 billion people, 4 billion people suffer from water shortages for at least 7 months a year. a year. It called for more realistic policies than previous practices. In terms of culture
Religion
Water is considered a cleanser in many religions. Religions that include ritual bathing (bathing) include Christianity, Hinduism, Islam, Judaism, Rastafari, Shinto, Taoism, and Wicca. The immersion (or immersing or tempering) of a person in water is the main Sacrament of Christianity (where it is called baptism); it is also part of the practice of other religions, including Islam (Ghusl), Judaism (mikvah) and Sikhism (Amrit Sanskar). In addition, ritual bathing in pure water is performed for the dead in many religions including Islam and Judaism. In Islam, the five daily prayers can often be performed after washing certain parts of the body using clean water (wudu), unless water is not available (see Tayammum). In Shinto, water is used in almost every ritual to cleanse a person or place (eg, in the misogi ritual). In Christianity, holy water is water consecrated by a priest for the purpose of baptism, to bless people, places, and things, or as a means of warding off evil. In Zoroastrianism, water (āb) is revered as the source of life. Philosophy
The ancient Greek philosopher Empedocles saw water as one of the four primordial elements (along with fire, earth, and air), and regarded it as the elemental, or fundamental element of the universe. Thales, whom Aristotle identified as an astronomer and engineer, expressed the belief that the earth, which is denser than water, arose from water. Thales, a monist, also believed that all things were made of water. Plato believed that the shape of water is an icosahedron - it flows easily compared to the cube-shaped earth. The theory of the four humors of the body is associated with water and phlegm, such as cold and dampness. The ancient element of water was one of the five elements of traditional Chinese philosophy (along with earth, fire, wood, and metal). Some traditional and popular Asian philosophical systems take water as an example. James Legge's 1891 translation of the Dao De Jing says, "The highest virtue is like (that of) water. The virtue of water is seen in its beneficence to all things, and in its taking, without striving (contrary), the inferior place that all men do not like. Therefore (its method) is close to (that of) the Tao" and "There is nothing in the world that is softer and weaker than water, and yet to attack hard and solid things nothing can take the first place - because there is nothing (effective) that cannot be changed because of it." Guanzi in the chapter "Shui di" 水地 explains in detail about the natural symbol of "human expression" and the qualities of water. in different regions of China to the character of local water sources
"Living water" features in Germanic and Slavic mythology as a means of bringing the dead back to life. Note the Grimm's fairy tale ("Water of Life") and the Russian dichotomy of living and dead water. The Fountain of Youth represents the related concept of magical water that is believed to prevent aging. Art and activism
In the important modern novel Ulysses (1922) by the Irish author James Joyce, the chapter "Ithaca" takes the form of a catechism of 309 questions and answers, one of which is known as the "water psalm". According to Richard E. Madtes, this song is not just "a series of brutal truths", rather, its phrases, like their title, "ebb and flow, swell and swell, gather and break, until it shrinks into the calm silence of the conclusion of 'plague pillars, pestilential ferns, faded flower waters, stagnant moon pools" are considered many moon pools. significant roles in Ithaca, and according to literary critic Hugh Kenner, he achieves "the impossible feat of elevating all the clutter of schoolbook information into poetry." The theme of the water text represents the novel's theme of "eternal, changing life," and the song represents the end of the novel's motif. The following is the hymn quoted in full. What in the water Bloom, the waterlover, the water drawer, the water carrier returning to the range, interested you? Its universality: its democratic balance and its inconsistency in its nature in seeking its level: its width in the sea of Mercator's projection: its depth not fixed in the Sundam channel in the Pacific rises more than 8,0 meters to visit in turn all the points of its sea: the independence of its units: the diversity of sea conditions: its calmness of hydrostatic calm: its hydrokinetic turgidity at near and spring levels: its subsidence after destruction: its barrenness in the circumpolar, arctic and arctic and antarctic1 of its importance above the antarctic: the dry land of the globe: its indisputable extent extends for square leagues throughout the subtropical region of Capricorn: the stability of many nations of the first basin: its flowing bed: its power to dissolve and hold in solution all soluble substances including millions of tons of the most precious metals downwards: alluvial deposits: their weight and volume and density: their consistency in the estuaries and mountains of the highland tarns: their color separation in the hot and cool and cold regions: their appearance in the continental lake with flowing streams and flowing rivers of the sea with its flowing rivers, rivers and west: violent south and sea: earthquakes, waterspouts, artesian fountains, eruptions, torrents, eddies, freshets, spates, groundswells, watersheds, waterpartings, geysers, cataracts, whirlpools, maelstroms, floods, floods, floods: its great rotation of the earth, expressed in the depth of the spring rhabdomantic or hygrometric instruments and shown in the well through a hole in the wall of the gate of Ashtown, the saturation of the air, the immersion of the dew: the simplicity of its composition, the two parts that make up hydrogen with one part of oxygen: its healing properties: its flow in the waters of the Dead Sea, entering the waters of the Dead Sea: dams, leaks on board the ship: its cleansing properties, quenching thirst and fire, nutritious vegetation: its failure as a paradigm and paragon: its metamorphoses as vapor, fog, cloud, rain, snow, ice, hail: its power in strong hydrants: its various types of seeps and floods and sounds and fjords and minches and bays of the sea and ice arms: its persistence in sea ice, icebergs, icebergs: its persistence in hydraulic operations millwheels, turbines, dynamos, electric power stations, bleachworks, tanneries, scutches of rivers, its intility its burial docks: its power is derived from combined waves or rivers of water falling from one level to another: animals under the sea and plants (anacoustic, photophobe) numerically, if not literally, the inhabitants of the world: its omnipresence as it constitutes 90% of the human body: the tyranny of its ways, the waste, the waste, the waste water of the stagnant pools of the waning moon. Artist and activist Fredericka Foster created The Value of Water, at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New York City, which strengthened the Cathedral's year-long campaign on our dependence on water. The largest exhibition ever to appear at the Cathedral, it featured more than forty artists, including Jenny Holzer, Robert Longo, Mark Rothko, William Kentridge, April Gornik, Kiki Smith, Pat Steir, Alice Dalton Brown, Teresita Fernandez and Bill Viola. Foster created Think About Water, an organic collection of artists who use water as their subject or medium. Members include Basia Irland, Aviva Rahmani, Betsy Damon, Diane Burko, Leila Daw, Stacy Levy, Charlotte Coté, Meridel Rubenstein, and Anna Macleod. To celebrate 10 years of access to water and sanitation being declared a human right by the UN, the charity WaterAid commissioned ten illustrators to show the impact of clean water on people's lives. Dihydrogen monoxide parody
'Dihydrogen monoxide' is the correct but rarely used chemical name for water. The term has been used in a series of hoaxes and pranks mocking scientific illiteracy. This began in 1983, when an April Fools' Day article appeared in a newspaper in Durand, Michigan. The false story included safety concerns about the drug. Music
The word "Water" has been used by many Florida rappers as a sort of catch phrase or adlib. Rappers who have done this include BLP Kosher and Ski Mask the Slump God. Moving on, some rappers have created entire songs dedicated to the waters of Florida, such as Danny Towers' 2023 song "Florida Water". Look again
Notes
References
Works cited
Read more
External links

World Water Information Page
FAO Comprehensive Water Database, AQUASTAT
Water Conflict Chronology: Water Conflict Database Archived 16 January 2013 at the Wayback Machine
School of water science (USGS)
Portal of the World Bank's strategy, work and publications related to water resources
America Water Resources Association Archived March 24, 2018 at the Wayback Machine
Water on the web
Water structure and science Archived December 28, 2014 at the Wayback Machine
"Why water is one of the strangest things in the universe", Opinions, BBC, Video, 3:16 minutes, 2019
Water chemistry Archived 19 June 2020 at the Wayback Machine (NSF special report)
International Association for the Properties of Water and Steam Archived 27 September 2022 at the Wayback Machine
H2O: The Molecule That Made Us, a 2020 PBS documentary